## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Aided Institutions Prohibition of Transfers of Property)
(Extension To Pudukkottai) Act, 1961

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Aided Institutions Prohibition of Transfers of Property)
(Extension To Pudukkottai) Act, 1961

## Act 54 of 1961

  * Published on 4 March 1962 
  * Commenced on 4 March 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 March 1962.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Aided Institutions Prohibition of Transfers of Property)
(Extension To Pudukkottai) Act, 1961Tamil Nadu Act 54 of 1961Received the
assent of the President on 4th March, 1962 and Published in the Port St.
George Gazette, Part IV, Section 4, Page 99, dated 14th March, 1962.An Act to
extend the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the words 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by It, Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Aided Institutions (Prohibition of
Transfers of Property) Act, 1948 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the words
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by It,
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XIV of
1948) to the merged territory of Pudukkottai.Whereas it is expedient to extend
the Tamil Nadu Aided Institution (Prohibition of Transfers of Property) Act,
1948 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1948) to the merged territory of Pudukkottai;Be it
enacted in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Aided Institution (Prohibition of
Transfers of Property (Extension to Pudukkottai Act, 1961.(2)It shall come
into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Extension of Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1948 to the merged territory of
Pudukkottai.

\- The [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the words 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by It, Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Aided Institutions (Prohibition of
Transfers of Property) Act, 1948 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the words
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by It,
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act (XIV of
1948) and any rule, order, notifications, or other instrument having the force
of law made thereunder hereinafter referred to in this Act as the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the words 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by It, Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] law and in force on the date of the commencement of
this Act in the Tiruchirapalli district except in the merged territory of
Pudukkottai are hereby extended to, and shall be in force; in, the merged
territory of Pudukkottai.

### 3. Repeal of corresponding law.

\- Any law corresponding to the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the words
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by It,
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] law in force in
the merged territory of Pudukkottai, immediately before the date of the
commencement of this Act (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
corresponding law), shall on the date of the commencement of this Act stand
repealed.

### 4. Savings.

(1)The repeal by section 3 of the corresponding law shall not affect-(a)the
previous operation of the corresponding law or anything done or duly suffered
thereunder; or(b)any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired,
accrued or incurred, under the corresponding law; or(c)any penalty, forfeiture
or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the
corresponding law; or(d)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in
respect of any such right privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, and any such investigation, legal
proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such
penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), anything done or any
action taken including any appointment or delegation made, notification or
direction issued, rule, regulation or form framed, certificate granted or
registration effected under the corresponding law shall be deemed to have been
done or taken under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the words 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by It, Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] law and shall continue to
have effect accordingly, unless and until superseded by anything done or any
action taken under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the words 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by It, Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] law.

### 5. Construction of reference to laws not in force in the merged territory
of Pudukkottai.

\- Any reference to the corresponding law in any law which continues to be in
force in the merged territory of Pudukkottai after the date of the
commencement of this Act, shall, in relation to that territory, be construed
as a reference to the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the words 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by It, Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] law corresponding to the
law so repealed.

### 6. Powers of Courts and other authorities for purposes of facilitating
application of laws.

\- For the purpose of facilitating the merged territory of Pudukkottai, any
Court or other authority may construe such law with such alterations not
affecting the substance as may be necessary or proper to adapt it to the
matter before the Court or other authority.

### 7. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, or
of any [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the words 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by It, Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] law as extended to the merged territory
of Pudukkottai by this Act, the State Government, as occasion may by order, do
anything which appears to them necessary for purposes of removing the
difficulty.(2)Every order issued under sub-section (1), shall as soon as
possible after it is issued be placed on the table of [the Legislative
Assembly] [Substituted for 'both Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry of the session in
which it is placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such order or [the
Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the order should not be
issued the order shall thereafter have effect in such modified form or be of
no effect, as the case may be, so however that any such modification or
annulment shall be without shall be without prejudiced to the validity of
anything previously done under that order.

