## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Council Act, 2009

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Council Act, 2009

## Act 19 of 2009

  * Published on 28 September 2011 
  * Commenced on 28 September 2011 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 September 2011.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Council Act, 2009Act No. 19 of 2009Statement
of Objects and Reasons. - At present there is no law to provide for the
regulation of agricultural practice in the State of Tamil Nadu. It has,
therefore, been considered necessary to regulate the agricultural practice and
for the registration of agricultural practitioners in the State and to
establish a Council called the Tamil Nadu Stab Agricultural Council. The
Government have decided to undertake a legislation for the purpose. The Bill
seeks to give effect to the above decision.Received the Assent of the Governor
of Tamil Nadu on August 5, 2009 - Published in Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
Extraordinary, Part IV, Section 2, Iss. No.207, pages 74-85, dated August 7,
2009.This Act has been repealed by the Act No. 31 of 2011, dated 28.9.2011,
published in T.N. Government Gazette dated 30.9.2011. Reproduced here for
pending reference.PreambleAn Act to regulate Agricultural Practice and to
provide for the establishment of Agricultural Council and the maintenance of
register of persons having qualification in agriculture or horticulture and
for matters connected therewith.Whereas it is expedient to make provisions for
the regulation of agricultural practice and to provide, for that purpose, to
establish Agricultural Council and the maintenance of register of persons
having qualification in agriculture or horticulture for the State of Tamil
Nadu and for matters connected therewith or ancillary thereto;Be it enacted by
the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Sixtieth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Council Act,
2009.] [This Act has been repealed by the Act No. 31 of 2011, dated 28.9.2011,
published in T.N. Government Gazette dated 30.9.2011. Reproduced here for
pending reference.](2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It
shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"agricultural
institution" means any university or other institution which grants degree in
agriculture or horticulture;(2)"agricultural practitioner" means persons
having agricultural qualification and carrying out agricultural
project;(3)"agricultural project" means specific programme of work pertaining
to agriculture or horticulture with well-defined objectives and programme of
action with time-frame along with financial implication;(4)"agricultural
qualification" means any of the qualifications specified in the Schedule which
is granted by the institutions specified therein and the qualifications
declared by the Government under Sections 15 and 16;(5)"committee" means the
executive committee or other committees constituted by the Council under
Section 12;(6)"Council" means the Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Council
established under Section 3 of the Act;(7)"Government" means the State
Government;(8)"member" means the member of the Council;(9)"register" means the
Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Practitioners Register maintained under Section
21;(10)"regulation" means a regulation made under Section 43 of this
Act;(11)"Schedule" means Schedule appended to this Act;(12)"Secretary" means a
person appointed by the Council under Section 11.

### 3. Establishment and Composition of the Council.

(1)The Government may, by notification, establish a Council to be called the
Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Council.(2)The Council shall be a body corporate
by the name aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a common seal, with
power to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and immovable,
and to contract and shall by the said name, sue or be sued.(3)The Council
shall consist of the following Members, namely:-(a)twenty members to be
elected, from among themselves, by the persons whose name has been entered in
the register;(b)"five senior faculty members one each representing the faculty
of Agriculture, Horticulture, Forestry, Agricultural Engineering and Home
Science to be nominated by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University" established
under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of
1971);(c)two members of Agriculture Department of the Government having
qualification in agriculture, to be nominated by the Government;(d)one member
of Horticulture Department of the Government having qualification in
horticulture, to be nominated by the Government;(e)one member of Agricultural
Engineering Department of the Government having qualification in Agricultural
Engineering to be nominated by the Government;(f)one leading Agricultural
entrepreneur preferably with agricultural qualification to be nominated by the
Government.(4)The President and the Vice-President of the Council shall be
elected by the members of the Council from among themselves.(5)The names of
persons nominated or elected as members of the Council including the President
and the Vice-President shall be notified by the Government in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.(6)A person shall not be qualified for nomination or
election to the Council unless he has registered.himself in the register.

### 4. Mode of election.

(1)An election, under Clause (a) of sub-section (3) of Section 3 shall be
conducted by the Government in accordance with such Rules as may be prescribed
and any Rules so made may provide that pending the preparation of register in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, the members referred to in Clause
(a) of sub-section (3) of Section 3 may be nominated by the
Government.(2)Where any dispute arises regarding any election to the Council,
it shall be referred to the Government for its decision which shall be final.

### 5. Term of Office of President, Vice-President and members.

(1)The President or Vice-President shall hold office for a term not exceeding
four years and not extending beyond the expiry of his term as a I
member.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), a member shall hold
office fora term of four years from the date of his election or nomination to
I fie Council:Provided that such a member shall, notwithstanding the expiry of
the I said period of four years continue to hold office until his successor is
elected I or nominated.(3)Member of the Council shall be eligible for re-
nomination or I reelection.(4)Where the term of four years in respect of any
member of the Council is about to expire, a successor may be nominated or
elected at any time within I one month before the said term expires, but he
shall not assume office until the said term has expired.

### 6. Cessation of membership.

(1)An elected or nominated member shall be deemed to have vacated his
office:-(a)if he is absent without excuse, sufficient in the opinion of the
Council, from three consecutive meetings of the Council;(b)in the case of the
member elected or nominated, if he ceases to be a person enrolled in the
register;(c)if he has been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude
and punishable with imprisonment;(d)if he is an undischarged insolvent;(e)if
he is of unsound mind and stands so declared by competent Court.(2)On the
occurrence of a vacancy referred to in sub-section (1), the Secretary shall
forthwith report the fact of such vacancy to the Government and thereafter the
Government may subject to the Proviso to Section 7, take necessary steps to
fill such vacancy.

### 7. Casual vacancy.

\- A casual vacancy in the Council shall be filled by nomination or election,
as the case may be, and the person nominated or elected to fill the vacancy
shall hold office only for the remainder of the term for which the member
whose place he takes, was nominated or elected:Provided that no such casual
vacancy occurring within six months on the date of expiry of the term of
office of a nominated or an elected member need be filled under this Section.

### 8. Resignation.

(1)The President or Vice-President of the Council may at any time resign his
office by notice in writing, addressed to the Council and delivered to the
Secretary and the resignation shall take effect from the date on which it is
accepted by the Council or on the expiry of ninety days from the date of
receipt of the resignation by the Secretary whichever is earlier.(2)A member
may at any time resign his office by notice in writing addressed to the
President and every such resignation shall take effect from the date on which
it is accepted by the President or on the expiry of ninety days from the date
of receipt of the resignation by the President, whichever is earlier.

### 9. Meetings.

(1)The Council shall meet every quarter in a year at such time and place as
may be appointed by the Council.(2)The quorum necessary for the transaction of
business at a meeting of the Council shall be nine.(3)The President when
present shall preside at the meeting of the Council, and in his absence, the
Vice-President, and in the absence of both, any other member elected by the
members present from amongst themselves shall preside at such meeting.(4)Save
as otherwise provided in this Act, all questions which come up before any
meeting of the Council shall be decided by a majority of the members present
and voting.(5)In the case of an equality of votes, the President of the
Council or the member who presides the meeting shall have a casting
vote.(6)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1) to (5), the Council
shall observe such Rules of procedure in regard to transaction of business at
its meetings as may be provided in the regulation.

### 10. Vacancies in the Council not to invalidate acts, etc.

\- No Act or proceeding of the Council shall be invalid by reason of the
existence of a vacancy in the Council or on account of any defect or
irregularity in its constitution.

### 11. Appointment of Secretary and other officers and employees.

(1)The Council may with the previous sanction of the Government appoint a
person with agricultural qualification as Secretary of the Council, who shall
also act as Treasurer unless the Council appoints any other person as
Treasurer. The Council may also appoint such other officers and employees as
it may deem necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)The terms and
conditions of service of the Secretary, other officers and employees appointed
by the Council shall be such as may be provided in the regulation.(3)The
Secretary, Officers and other employees of the Council shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code
(Central Act XLV of 1860).(4)All orders and decisions and other instruments of
the Council shall be authenticated by the signature of the Secretary or any
other officer of the Council duly authorised by it in this behalf.

### 12. Executive Committee and other committees.

(1)The Council shall constitute from among its members an executive committee
and may constitute such other committees for such general or specific purposes
as the Council considers necessary and may co-opt any person or persons
specifically qualified to advise on any matter to any committee other than
executive committee. The composition anti function of executive committee
shall be such as may be provided in the regulation.(2)A committee constituted
under this Section shall meet at such time and at such place and shall observe
such Rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its
meetings as may be provided in the regulation.

### 13. Fees and allowances.

\- The President, Vice-President and other members of the Council and also the
members of the committees shall be paid such fees and allowances for attending
the meetings of the Council or as the case may be, the committees, as may be
provided in the regulation.

### 14. Recognition of agricultural qualifications.

(1)The agricultural qualifications granted by the agricultural institutions in
the State of Tamil Nadu which are included in the Schedule shall be recognized
agricultural qualifications for the purposes of this Act.(2)Any agricultural
institution in the State of Tamil Nadu which grants an agricultural
qualification not included in the Schedule may apply to the Government to have
such qualification recognized and the Government, after consulting the
Council, may by notification, amend the Schedule, so as to include such
institution and such qualification therein when granted after a specified
date.

### 15. Recognition of agricultural qualifications when there is scheme of
reciprocity.

(1)The agricultural qualifications granted by agricultural institutions
outside the State of Tamil Nadu or outside India with which there is a scheme
of reciprocity shall be recognized qualifications for the purposes of this
Act.(2)The Council may enter into negotiations with the authority in any State
outside the State of Tamil Nadu or in any Country outside India which by the
law of such State Or Country is entrusted with the maintenance of a register
similar to the register referred to in Section 21 and for the setting up of a
scheme of reciprocity for the recognition of agricultural qualifications, and
in pursuance of any such negotiation and on the recommendation of the Council
the Government may, by notification, declare that it shall be recognized only
when granted after a specified date.(3)Where the Council has refused to
recommend any agricultural qualification which has been proposed for
recognition by any authority referred to in sub-section (2) and such authority
applies to the Government, the Government after considering such application
and after obtaining from the Council a report, if any, as to the reasons for
any such refusal may, by notification, declare that it shall be recognized
only when granted after a specified date.

### 16. Recognition of agricultural qualifications when there is no scheme of
reciprocity.

(1)The Government after consultation with the Council may, by notification,
direct that the agricultural qualifications granted by agricultural
institution in any State outside the State of Tamil Nadu or in any Country
outside India in respect of which a scheme of reciprocity for the recognition
of agricultural qualifications is not in force, shall be recognized
agricultural qualifications for the purposes specified in sub-section (2) and
shall be so only when granted after a specified date or before a specified
date.(2)The agricultural practice by persons possessing such
qualifications,-(a)shall be permitted only if such persons are enrolled as
agricultural practitioner in accordance with the law regulating the-
registration of such persons for the time being in force in that State or
Country;(b)shall be limited to the institutions to which they are attached for
the time being for the purpose of teaching and research work; and(c)shall be
limited to the period specified in this behalf by the Government by general or
special order.

### 17. Power to require information as to courses of study and examinations.

\- Every agricultural institution which grants a recognized agricultural
qualification shall furnish such information as the Council may from time to
time require as to the courses of study and examinations to be undergone in
order to obtain such qualification, as to the age of which such courses of
study and examinations are required to be undergone and such qualification is
conferred and generally as to the requisites for obtaining such qualification.

### 18. Inspection of agricultural institutions and examinations.

(1)The Council may, subject to regulations, if any, made by it, authorise such
number of members as it may deem requisite to inspect any agricultural
institution where agricultural education is given or to attend any examination
held by any agricultural institution for the purpose of recommending to the
Government for recognition of agricultural qualification granted by such
agricultural institution.(2)The members so authorized shall not interfere with
the conduct of any training or examination, but shall report to the Council on
the adequacy of the standards of agricultural education including staff,
equipment, accommodation, training and other facilities provided in the
regulation for giving agricultural education or on the sufficiency of every
examination which they attend.(3)The Council shall forward a copy of any such
report to the agricultural institution concerned and shall also forward a copy
with remarks, if any, of the said institution thereon, to the Government.

### 19. Withdrawal of recognition.

(1)When upon report by the members so authorised, it appears to the
Council-(a)that the courses of study and examinations to be undergone or the
proficiency required from candidates at any examination held by any
agricultural institution in order to obtain the agricultural qualification are
not in conformity with the regulation made under this Act or fall short of the
standards required thereby, or(b)that the staff, equipment, accommodation,
training and other facilities for instruction and training provided in such
agricultural institution do not conform to the standards as may be provided in
the regulation the Council shall send a statement to that effect to the
Government.(2)After considering such a statement, the Government shall forward
it along with such remarks as it may choose to make to the agricultural
institution, with an intimation of the period within which that institution
may submit its explanation to the Government.(3)The Government, on receipt of
the explanation and after making such inquiry, if any, as it deems fit, may,
by notification, direct that an entry shall be made in the Schedule against
the said agricultural qualification granted by such agricultural institution
declaring that it shall be recognized agricultural qualification only when
granted before a specified date or after a specified date:Provided that before
issuing such notification, the Government may consult the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research.

### 20. Minimum standards of agricultural education.

(1)The Council may by regulation specify the minimum standards at education
required for granting agricultural qualifications by the agricultural
institutions.(2)A committee, if any, constituted under Section 12 for this
purpose shall, from time to time, report to the Council on the efficacy of the
regulation and may recommend to the Council such amendments thereof as it may
think fit.

### 21. Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Practitioners Register.

(1)The Council shall cause to be maintained in the prescribed manner a
register to be known as the "Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Practitioners
Register" which shall contain the names of all persons who possess the
agricultural qualification and who are for any time being registered his name
in the said register.(2)It shall be the duty of the Secretary of the
Council,-(a)to keep the register in accordance with the provisions of this
Act;(b)to keep any orders made by the Council;(c)to revise the register from
time to time; and(d)to publish the register in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette in such manner as may be provided in the regulation.(3)Such register
shall be deemed to be a public document with in the meaning of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872 (Central Act 1 of 1872), and may be proved by a copy
published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 22. Preparation of the first register.

(1)For the purposes of preparing the first Tamil Nadu State Agricultural
Practitioners Register, the Government shall, by notification, constitute a
Registration Tribunal consisting of three persons holding agricultural
qualifications and also appoint a Registrar holding agricultural
qualifications who shall act as Secretary of the Tribunal.(2)The Government
may also, by notification, appoint a date on or before which application for
registration, shall be made in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed, to the Registration Tribunal. The application for registration
shall be accompanied by such fee not exceeding one thousand rupees, is may be
prescribed.(3)The Registration Tribunal shall examine every application
received on or before the appointed date, and if it is satisfied that the
applicant is qualified for registration, shall direct the entry of the name of
the applicant in the register.(4)The register so prepared shall thereafter be
published in such manner as may be prescribed. Any person aggrieved by any
entry in the register as so published may, within sixty days; from the date of
such publication, appeal to an authority appointed by the Government in this
behalf by notification.(5)The Registrar shall amend the register in accordance
with the ; decision of the authority appointed under sub-section (4) and shall
thereupon issue to every person whose name is entered in the register, a
certificate of registration in such form as may be prescribed.(6)Upon the
establishment of the Council, the register shall be given into its custody and
all the application fees collected for registration in the first register
shall be paid to the credit of the Council.

### 23. Registration in the register and issue of Certificate.

(1)After the establishment of the Council, the Secretary of the Council may,
on an Application made in such form and in such manner, as may be prescribed,
by any such person, if satisfied that the person concerned possesses
agricultural qualification, enter his name in the register.(2)Any person whose
name has been entered in the register shall on an Application made in this
behalf in such form and in such manner and on payment of such fee not
exceeding one thousand rupees as may be prescribed be entitled to a
certificate of registration and the Council shall grant to the applicant a
certificate of registration in such form as may be prescribed:Provided that on
the removal of his name from the register, such certificate shall cease to be
valid.(3)Any person who acquired agricultural qualification from outside the
State of Tamil Nadu and migrated into the State of Tamil Nadu shall also
register with the Council within a period of ninety days of his entry in the
State of Tamil Nadu.(4)Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Secretary
that a Certificate of registration has been lost or destroyed, the Secretary
may, on payment of such fee not exceeding one thousand rupees as may be
prescribed issue a duplicate Certificate in such form as may be prescribed.

### 24. Registration of additional qualification.

\- If any person whose name is entered in the register obtains any post-
graduate degree or diploma in addition to his agricultural qualification, he
shall, on an Application made in this behalf in such form and in such manner
and on payment of such fee, not exceeding one thousand rupees as may be
provided in the regulation, be entitled to have an entry stating such degree
or diploma made against his name in the register in addition to any entry
previously made.

### 25. Renewal of registration.

(1)For the retention of a name in the register, there shall be paid in every
ten years to the Council, such renewal fee not exceeding one thousand rupees
as may be provided in the regulation and such renewal fee shall be due to be
paid before the first day of April of the year to which it relates.(2)Where a
renewal fee is not paid within the said date, the Secretary shall remove the
name of the defaulter from the register after giving a notice in such manner
as may be provided in the regulation:Provided that a name so removed may be
restored to the register on payment of such fee in such manner as may be
provided in the regulation.(3)On payment of the renewal fee, the Secretary
shall issue a Certificate of renewal and such certificate shall be proof of
renewal of registration.

### 26. Removal from the register.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Section, the Council may order that the
name of any person shall be removed from the register where it is satisfied
after giving him reasonable opportunity of being heard and after such further
inquiry, if any, as it may think fit, -(a)that his name has been entered in
the register by error on account of mis-representation or suppression of a
material fact, or(b)that he has been convicted of an offence involving moral
turpitude and punishable with imprisonment or has been guilty of any infamous
conduct and etiquette or the code of ethics which in the opinion of the
Council renders him unfit to be kept in the said register.(2)An order under
sub-section (1) may direct that any person whose name is ordered to be removed
from the register shall be ineligible for registration under this Act, either
permanently or for such period as may be specified in that order.(3)An order
under sub-section (1) shall not take effect until the expiry of three months
from the date thereof or until an appeal, if any, on such order is finally
disposed of, whichever date is later.(4)A person aggrieved by an order under
sub-section (1) may, within sixty days from the communication to him of such
order, appeal to the Government and the decision of the Government shall be
final.(5)A person whose name has been removed by an order under subsection (1)
which has become final shall within such period as may be provided in the
regulation surrender his certificate of registration and certificate of
renewal, if any, to the Secretary and the name so removed shall be published
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 27. Person enrolled on the register to inform change of place of residence
or practice.

\- Every person whose name is entered in the register shall inform any
transfer of the place of his residence or practice to the Council within
ninety days of such transfer, failing which his right to participate in the
election of members of the Council shall be liable to be forfeited by order of
the Council, either permanently or for such period as may be specified
therein.

### 28. Privileges of person whose name is entered in the register.

\- Subject to the conditions and restrictions laid down in this Act, every
person whose name is borne on the register shall be entitled according to his
qualifications to practice as an agricultural practitioner and to recover in
due course of law in respect of such practice, any expenses, charges and fees
to which he may be entitled.

### 29. Right of person whose name is entered in the register.

\- No person other than a person whose name is borne on the register shall
practice as Agricultural consultant within the State of Tamil Nadu or render
Agricultural services.Explanation. - "Agricultural service" means-(a)rendering
agricultural services in crop husbandry, pre-harvest technology, seed
technology, soil testing, water testing, prescription for fertilizer, plant
growth regulators, weedicides and plant protection materials, post-harvest
technology, seed production technology and agricultural bio-
technology;(b)preparing agricultural projects for private or public sector
enterprises and sign or authenticate agricultural projects and issue valuation
certificate required by any law to be signed or authenticated by duly
qualified agricultural practitioner;(c)organizing and running agricultural
clinics and laboratories to help farmers, in assessing soil and water
qualities, quantity of organic manorial substances and fertilizers,
identifying pests and diseases of crops and prescribing remedial measures,
formulating and helping implementation of cropping programs suited to
different soil conditions and agro-climatic factors, adopting Hi-tech farming
systems in kitchen gardening, floriculture and in development of perennial
plantations.

### 30. Professional conduct.

(1)The Council may, by regulation, specify the standards of professional
conduct and etiquette and a code of ethics for agricultural
practitioners.(2)Regulation made by the Council under sub-section (1) may
specify which violations there of shall constitute infamous conduct in any
professional respect, that is to say, professional misconduct and such
provisions shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in any other
law for the time being in force.

### 31. Penalty for falsely claiming to be registered.

\- If any person whose name is not for the time being entered in the register
falsely represents that it is so entered or uses in connection with his name
or title any words or letters reasonably calculated to suggest that his name
is so entered in the register, he shall be punishable on first conviction with
fine, which may extend to rupees five thousand and on any subsequent
conviction, with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine not
exceeding rupees ten thousand, or with both.

### 32. Misuse of titles.

(1)If any person,-(a)not being a person registered in the register, makes or
uses the description as agricultural practitioner, or(b)not possessing an
agricultural qualification, uses a degree or an abbreviation indicating or
implying such qualification, he shall be punishable on first conviction with
fine which may extend to rupees five thousand, and on any subsequent
conviction with imprisonment, which may extend to six months, or with fine not
exceeding rupees ten thousand or with both.

### 33. Failure to surrender certificate of registration.

\- If any person whose name has been removed from the register fails without
sufficient cause to surrender his certificate of registration within the
period provided in the regulation, he shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to rupees five hundred and in case of continuing offence with an
additional fine which may extend upto rupees one hundred per month, or part
thereof, after the first day during which the offence continues.

### 34. Cognizance of offence.

\- No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act,
except upon complaint made by an order of the Government or the Council.

### 35. Accounts and Audit.

(1)The accounts of the Council shall be maintained in such manner and in such
form as may be provided in the regulation. The Council shall prepare an annual
statement of accounts in such form as may be provided in the regulation.(2)The
accounts of the Council shall be audited once in a year by such auditor as the
Government may appoint in this behalf.(3)The auditor appointed under sub-
section (2) shall, in connection with such audit, have such rights, privileges
and authority as may be provided in the regulation and in particular, the
right to demand the production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and
other documents and to inspect any of the offices of the Council.(4)The
Secretary shall cause the report of the auditor to be printed and shall bring
such report before the Council for consideration at its next meeting.(5)The
Council shall remedy forthwith, any defects or irregularities that may be
pointed out by the auditor and submit a report thereon to the Government.

### 36. Information to be furnished by the Council and Publication thereof.

(1)The Council shall furnish such reports, copies of its minutes, abstract of
its accounts and other information to the Government as the Government may
require.(2)The Government may publish, in such manner as it thinks fit, any
report, copy, abstract or other information furnished to it under this
Section.

### 37. Bar of jurisdiction.

\- No order refusing to enter a name in a register or removing a name from the
register shall be called in question in any court of law.

### 38. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No Suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act, any Rule, regulation or order made thereunder.

### 39. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order, published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
as appears to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.

### 40. Power of Government to give directions.

\- The Government may, from time to time, issue such directions not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to the Council as it may deem
fit for giving effect to the provisions of this Act and the Council shall
comply with such directions. '

### 41. Appointment of Commission.

(1)Whenever it appears to the Government that the Council is not complying
with any of the provisions of this Act, the Government may appoint a
Commission consisting of three persons, two of whom shall be appointed by the
Government, one being the Judge of High Court and one named by the Council and
refer to the Commission, the matter on which the enquiry is to be made.(2)The
Commission shall proceed to enquire in a summary manner and report to the
Government on the matters referred to it together with such remedies, if any,
as the Commission may like to recommend.(3)The Government may accept the
report or remit the same to the Commission for modification or
reconsideration. After the report is finally accepted, the Government may
order the Council to adopt the remedies so recommended within such time as may
be specified in the order and if the Council fails to comply within the time
so specified, the Government may pass such order or take such action as may be
necessary to give effect to the recommendations of the Commission.

### 42. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make Rules to carry out the purposes at this
Act.(2)(a)All Rules made under this Act shall be published in tire Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act, shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the date
on which they are so published.(3)Every Rule made or notification or order
issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued,
be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry
of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly
makes any modification in any such Rule or notification or order, or the
Assembly decides that the Rule or notification or order should not be made or
issued, the Rule or notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that Rule or notification or order.

### 43. Power to make regulations.

(1)The Council may, with the previous approval of the Government, make
regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and the Rules
made under Section 42, to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)No regulation
or its cancellation or modification shall have effect until the same have been
approved by the Government.(3)The Government may, by notification, rescind any
regulation made under this Section and thereupon, the regulation shall cease
to have effect.(4)All regulations made under this Act shall be published in
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into
force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are
so published.The Schedule[See Sections 2(4) and 14(1)]Recognized Agricultural
Qualification

SI. No. | Institution | Qualification | Abbreviation for Registration  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1. | University of Chennai | Bachelor of Science (Agriculture) | B.Sc. (Agriculture)  
2. | Tamil Nadu Agricultural University | Bachelor of Science (Agriculture) | B.Sc. (Agriculture)  
|  | Bachelor of Science (Forestry) | B.Sc. (Forestry)  
|  | Bachelor of Science (Horticulture) | B.Sc. (Horticulture)  
|  | Bachelor of Science (Home Science) | B.Sc. (Home Science)  
|  | Bachelor of Technology (Biotechnology) | B. Tech. (Biotechnology)  
|  | Bachelor of Technology (Agricultural Engineering) | B. Tech. (Agricultural Engineering)  
|  | Bachelor of Technology (Agricultural Information Technology) | B. Tech. (Agricultural Information Technology)  
|  | Bachelor of Technology (Bio-informatics) | B. Tech. (Bio-informatics)  
|  | Bachelor of Technology Energy and Environmental Engineering) | B. Tech. (Energy and ( Environmental Engineering)  
|  | Bachelor of Technology (Food Process Engineering) | B. Tech. (Food Process Engineering)  
|  | Bachelor of Technology (Horticulture) | B. Tech. (Horticulture)  
|  | Bachelor of Science (Agribusiness Management) | B.S. (Agribusiness Management)  
3. | Annamalai University | Bachelor of Science (Agriculture) | B.Sc. (Agriculture)  
|  | Bachelor of Science (Horticulture) | B.Sc. (Horticulture)

