## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission - Conduct of Business
Regulations, 2004

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission - Conduct of Business
Regulations, 2004

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-CONDUCT-OF-BUSINESS-
REGULATIONS-2004 of 2004

  * Published on 8 January 2004 
  * Commenced on 8 January 2004 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 January 2004.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission - Conduct of Business
Regulations, 2004Published vide Notification No. TNERC/CBR/1/2, dated 8.1.2004
- No. 5 (2)498/2004In exercise of the powers conferred on by section 181 of
the Electricity Act, 2003 (Act 36 of 2003) and all powers enabling it in that
behalf the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission hereby makes the
following Regulations. These Regulations supersede 'Tamil Nadu Electricity
Regulatory Commission (Conduct of Business) Regulations, 2002' published in
Notification No. TNERC/ CBR/1/1, dated 5.7.2002 in the Gazette, dated July 17,
2002 of Government of Tamil Nadu.

## Chapter I  
General

### 1. Short title, commencement and extent.

(1)These Regulations may be called the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory
Commission - Conduct of Business Regulations, 2004.(2)The object of these
Regulations is to establish procedures in regard to the transaction of
business with regard to the Commission(3)They shall [come into force on the
date] [(vide-the Tamil Nadu Government Gazattee, (Supplement) dated the 18th
February 2004).] of their publication in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.(4)They extend to the entire State of Tamil Nadu.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)'Act' means
the Electricity Act, 2003 (Act 36 of 2003);(b)'Commission' means the Tamil
Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission;(c)'Chairperson' means the Chairperson
of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission;(d)'Member' means a Member
of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission;(e)'Secretary' means the
Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission;(f)'Officer'
means an officer of the Commission;(g)'Petition' means and includes all
petitions, applications, complaints, appeals, replies, rejoinders,
supplemental pleadings, other papers and documents filed before the
Commission;(h)'Proceedings' shall mean and include proceedings of all nature
such as hearings, meetings, discussions, deliberations, enquiries,
investigations, consultations, etc. that the Commission may hold in the
discharge of its functions under the Act;(i)'Specified number of copies' means
five copies or such number of copies as may be prescribed by the
Commission;(j)'Fee' means a fee payable to the Commission for the services
rendered, which will be fixed by the Commission for different types of
services;(k)'Designated officer' means an officer of the Commission designated
for the specific purpose;(l)'Board' means the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board or
any of its successor entities;(2)Words or expressions occurring in these
regulations and not defined herein but defined in the Electricity Act, 2003
shall bear the same meanings assigned to them in that Act.(3)The original
regulations will be in English and they will be translated in Tamil. In case
of difference in interpretation of regulations in Tamil version, the original
regulation in English version will stand.

### 3. Commission's offices, office hours and sittings.

(1)The place of the offices of the Commission may, from time to time, be
specified by the Commission, by an order made in that behalf.(2)Unless
otherwise directed, the headquarters and other offices of the Commission shall
be open daily except on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays notified by the
Government of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters and other offices of the Commission
shall be open at such times as the Commission may direct, from time to
time.(3)When the last day for doing any act falls on a day on which the office
of the Commission is closed and by reason thereof the act cannot be done on
that day, it may be done on the next day on which the office is open.(4)The
Commission may hold sittings for transacting its business at the headquarters
or at any other place on days and time to be specified by the Commission.

### 4. Language of the Commission.

(1)The proceedings of the Commission shall be conducted in English or Tamil,
if permitted by the Commission.(2)The petitions, documents or other matters
contained in any language other than English or Tamil shall be accepted by the
Commission only, if the same is accompanied by a translation thereof in
English.(3)Any translation which is agreed to by the parties to the
proceedings or which any of the parties may furnish with a certificate of the
person who had translated the same to English, may be accepted by the
Commission as a true translation. The Commission, in appropriate cases, may
insists for translation in English of the said documents by an officer or
person designated by the Commission for the purpose.

### 5. Commission to have a seal of its own.

(1)The Commission shall have a seal of its own. The impression of the seal
shall be certified and kept on record of the Commission.(2)Every order or
communication made, notice issued or certified copy granted by the Commission
shall be stamped with the seal of the Commission and shall be certified by an
officer designated for the purpose.

### 6. Members officers and employees of the Commission to be public servants.

\- As provided in section 169 of the Act, the Chairperson, members, officers
and other employees of the Commission shall be deemed, when acting or
purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of the Act, to be
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.

### 7. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- As provided under section 168 of the Act, no suit, prosecution or other
legal proceedings shall lie against the Commission or the officers of the
Commission for anything done or in good faith purporting to be done under the
Actor these regulations.

### 8. Officers of the Commission.

(1)The Commission shall have the power to appoint Secretary, officers and
other employees for discharging various duties. It may also prescribe the
qualifications, experience and other terms and conditions for the appointment
of such officers and other employees.(2)The Commission may appoint Consultants
to assist the Commission in the discharge of its functions.

### 9. Secretary of the Commission.

(1)The Secretary is the Principal Officer of the Commission and shall perform
such functions as are assigned to him by these regulations or otherwise by the
Commission or the Chairperson.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the above provisions, the Secretary shall have the following
powers and perform the following duties, namely:-(a)He shall have the custody
of the seal and records of the Commission;(b)He shall receive or cause to
receive all petitions, applications or references on behalf of the
Commission;(c)He shall prepare or cause to be prepared briefs and summaries of
all pleadings before the Commission in the discharge of its function in this
regard and that such summary shall indicate the names of the parties and the
relief sought in verbatim without going into the merits of the pleading;(d)He
shall assist in the proceedings conducted by the Commission;(e)He shall issue
certified copies of the order passed by the Commission;(f)He shall ensure
compliance of the orders passed by the Commission as stated in regulation 54
of these regulations;(g)He shall have the right to collect from the Government
or other offices, companies and firms or any other party as may be directed by
the Commission, such information as may be considered useful for the purpose
of efficient discharge of the functions of the Commission under the Act and
place the information before the Commission;(h)He shall prepare the minutes of
the meetings of the Commission and record the decisions of the Commission in
the minutes book to be kept for the purpose.(3)The Secretary may, with the
approval of the Commission, delegate to any other officer of the Commission
any function required by these regulations or otherwise, to be exercised by
the Secretary.(4)In the absence of the Secretary, such other officer of the
Commission, as may be designated by the Chairperson, may exercise all the
functions of the Secretary.(5)The Chairperson may delegate to the officers
such functions including functions that may be required by these regulations
to be performed by the Secretary on terms and conditions to be specified for
the purpose.(6)The Commission shall at all times have the authority, either on
an application made to it by any interested or affected party or suo motu to
entertain, review, revoke, revise, modify, amend, alter or otherwise change
any order passed or action taken by the Secretary or the officers of the
Commission, if the Commission considers the same to be appropriate.

### 10. Advisory Committee.

\- An Advisory Committee shall be constituted in accordance with the
provisions of section 87 of the Act. This committee shall conduct its business
in line with the State Advisory Committee Regulations to achieve the objects
as specified under section 88 of the Act.

## Chapter II  
Proceedings Before the Commission

### 11. Proceedings before the Commission.

(1)The commission may, from time to time, hold such proceedings as it may
consider appropriate in the discharge of its functions under the Act. The
Commission may appoint an officer or any other person whom the Commission
considers appropriate to represent the matter as Commission's representative
in the proceedings.(2)All matters which the Commission is required under the
Act to undertake and discharge through hearings of the affected parties and
such other matter as the Commission may consider appropriate shall be done
through proceedings.(3)All other matters may be decided by the Commission
administratively through the meeting of the Chairperson and Members or by such
other officers or persons to whom the powers and functions have been
delegated.

### 12. Quorum.

\- Except for initial procedural issues like notices, filing of copies and
documents, the quorum of the Commission shall be two among the three Members.
For all initial procedural issues, the quorum may be one Member.

### 13. Conduct of proceedings in the absence of Chairperson.

\- Conduct of proceedings in the absence of Chairperson shall conform to the
provisions in section 92(2) of the Act, which reads as "The Chairperson or if
he is unable to attend a meeting of the Appropriate Commission, any other
member nominated by the Chairperson in this behalf and, in the absence of such
nomination or where there is no Chairperson, any Member chosen by the Members
present from amongst themselves shall preside at the meeting."

### 14. Decision through majority of votes.

\- The decision of the Commission shall be through majority of votes as
provided in section 92(3) of the Act which reads as "All questions which
cornel up before any meeting of the Appropriate Commission shall be decided by
a majority of votes of the Members present and voting and in the event of an
equality of votes, the Chairperson or in his absence, the person presiding
shall have a second or casting vote."

### 15. Authority to represent.

\- A person may authorise an advocate or a member of any recognised
professional body as the Commission may, from time to time, specify, to
represent him and act and plead on his behalf before the Commission. The
person may appear himself or may authorise any of his employees or an agent to
appear before the Commission and to act and plead on his behalf. The
Commission may, from time to time, specify the terms and conditions subject to
which a person may authorise any other person to represent him and act and
plead on his behalf.

### 16. Initiation of proceedings.

(1)The Commission may initiate any proceedings suo moto or on a petition filed
by any affected or interested person.(2)When the Commission initiates the
proceedings, it shall be by a due notice issued by the Commission. The
Commission may give such orders and directions as may be deemed necessary, for
serving of notices to the affected parties for the filing of replies and
rejoinders against or in support of the petition in such form as the
Commission may direct. The Commission may, if it considers appropriate, issue
orders for publication of the petition inviting comments from the public or
any class of persons on the issue involved in the proceedings in such form as
the Commission may direct.(3)While issuing the notice of inquiry, the
Commission may, in pomotu proceedings and other appropriate cases, designate
an officer of the Commission or any other person whom the Commission considers
appropriate to present the matter in the capacity of a petitioner in the case.

### 17. Petitions and pleadings before the Commission.

\- All petitions to be filed before the Commission shall be typewritten or
printed neatly and legibly on one side of white paper and every page shall be
consecutively numbered. The contents of the petition shall be divided
appropriately into separate paragraphs which shall be numbered serially. The
petition shall be accompanied by such authenticated documents, listed serially
and marked as Annexure alphabetically in capital letters along with supporting
data and statements.

### 18. General Headings.

\- The general heading in all petitions before the Commission shall be in Form
1 (Annexure 1).

### 19. Affidavit in support.

(1)Petitions or objections or counters filed shall be verified by an affidavit
and every such affidavit shall be in Form 2 (Annexure 2).(2)Every affidavit
shall be drawn up in the first person and shall state the full name, age,
occupation and address of the deponent and the capacity in which he is signing
and shall be signed and sworn before a person lawfully authorised to take and
receive affidavits.(3)Every affidavit shall clearly and separately indicate
statements which are true to the:(a)belief of the deponent;(b)knowledge of the
deponents; and(c)information received by the deponent.(4)Where any statement
in the affidavit is stated to be true to the information received by the
deponent, the affidavit shall also disclose the source of the information and
a statement that the deponent believes that information to be true.

### 20. Presentation and scrutiny of the pleadings, etc.

(1)All petitions shall be filed with specified number of copies and each set
of the petition shall be complete in all respects. The fees as may be
prescribed by the Commission shall be payable along with the petition.(2)All
petitions shall be presented in person or by any duly authorised agent or
representative at the headquarters or such other filing centre or centres as
may be notified by the Commission, from time to time, and during the time
notified. The petitions may also be sent by registered post with
acknowledgment due to the Commission at the place mentioned above. The
vakalatnama in favour of the advocate and in the event the petitions are
presented by the authorised agent or representative, the document authorising
the agent or representative shall be filed along with the petition, if not
already filed on the record of the case.(3)Upon the receipt of the petition,
the designated officer (the officer of the Commission designated for the
purpose) shall acknowledge the receipt by stamping and endorsing the date of
its receipt / presentation and shall issue an acknowledgment. In case the
petition is received by registered post, the date on which the petition is
actually received at the office of the Commission shall be taken as the date
of the presentation of the petition.(4)The presentation and receipt of the
petition shall be duly entered in the register maintained for the purpose by
the office of the Commission.(5)The designated officer may decline to accept
any petition which does not conform to the provisions of the Act or the
regulations or directions given by the Commission or otherwise defective or
which is presented otherwise than in accordance with the regulation or
directions of the Commission. Provided no petition shall be refused for defect
in the pleadings or in the presentation, without giving an opportunity to the
person filing the petition to rectify the defect within the time which may be
given for the purpose. The designated officer shall advise in writing the
person filing the petition of the defects in the petition filed and it shall
be the responsibility of the person filing the petition / application to
rectify the discrepancies pointed out by the designated officer within the
prescribed time.(6)A person aggrieved by any order of the designated officer
in regard to the presentation of the petition may request the matter to be
placed before the Secretary of the Commission for appropriate orders.(7)The
Chairperson or any member designated by the Chairperson for the purpose shall
be entitled to call for the petition presented by the party and give such
directions regarding the presentation and acceptance of the petition as
considered appropriate.(8)If after scrutiny, the petition is accepted by the
Secretary or by the Chairperson or the Member of the Commission, the petition
shall be duly registered and given a number in the manner to be specified the
Commission. Petition thus registered shall be placed before the Commission for
admission.(9)The Commission may admit the petition for hearing without
requiring the attendance of the party. The Commission shall not pass un order
refusing admission without giving the party concerned an opportunity of being
heard. The Commission may also desire to hear respondents.(10)If the
Commission admits the petitions, it may give such orders and directions, as
may be deemed necessary, for service of notices to the respondent and other
affected or interested parties for the filing of replies and rejoinder in
opposition or in support of the petition.(11)The Commission while ordering
notice/publication shall determine dates for -(a)filing counter or
objections;(b)rejoinders, if any, to the counters or objections;(c)hearing on
the pleadings.The respondents and or third parties shall file their respective
counters or objections on or before the specified dates, after serving a copy
on the other parties to the proceedings

### 21. Serving of notices and processes issued by the Commission.

(1)Any notice or process to be issued by the Commission may be served under
any one or more of the following ways:-(a)Service by any of the parties to the
proceedings as may be directed by the Commission;(b)By hand delivery through a
messenger, duly acknowledged;(c)By registered post with acknowledgment;(d)By
publishing in newspaper in cases where the Commission is satisfied that it is
not reasonably practicable to serve the notices, processes, etc., on any
person in the manner mentioned above;(e)In any other manner as considered
appropriate by the Commission.(2)The Commission shall be entitled to decide in
each case, the persons who shall bear the cost of such service /
publication.(3)Every notice or process required to be served on or delivered
to any person may be sent to the person or his agent empowered to accept
service at the address furnished by him or at the place where the person or
his agent ordinarily resides or carries on business 01 personally works.(4)In
the event, when any matter is pending before the Commission and the person to
be served has authorised an agent or representative to appear for or represent
him in the matter, such agent or representative shall be deemed to be duly
empowered to take service of the notices and processes on behalf of the party
concerned in all the matters and the service on such agent or representative
shall be taken as due service on the person to be served.(5)Where a notice is
served by a party to the proceedings either in person or through registered
post, an affidavit of service shall be filed by such party with the Commission
giving details of the date and manner of service of notices and
processes.(6)Where any petition is required to be published, it shall be done
so within such time as the Commission may direct and unless otherwise directed
by the Commission, in one issue each of a daily newspaper in the English
language and one newspaper in Tamil language having wide circulation in the
area specified by the Commission.(7)In default of compliance with the
requirements of the Regulations or directions of the Commission as regards the
service of notices, summons or processes or the advertisement and publication
thereof, the Commission may either dismiss the petition or give such other
further directions as it thinks fit.(8)No service or publication required to
be done shall be deemed invalid by reason of any defect in the name or
description of a person provided that the Commission is satisfied that such
service is in other respects sufficient. No proceeding shall be invalidated by
reason of any defect or irregularity unless the Commission, on an objection
taken, is of the opinion that substantial injustice has been caused by such
defect or irregularity or there are otherwise sufficient reasons for doing so.

### 22. Publication of petition.

(1)Where any application, petition or other matter is required to be published
under the Act or as per these regulations or as per the directions of the
Commission, it shall unless the Commission otherwise orders or the Act or any
other regulations made by the Commission other than these regulations
otherwise provide, be advertised not less than seven days before the date
fixed for hearing.(2)Except as otherwise provided, such advertisements shall
give a heading describing the subject matter in brief.(3)Such advertisement to
be published shall be approved by the officer of the Commission designated for
the purpose.

### 23. Filing of reply, opposition, objections, etc.

(1)Each person to whom the notice of enquiry or the petition is issued
(hereinafter called the respondent) who intends to oppose or support the
petition, shall file the reply and the authenticated documents relied upon
within such period and with specified number of copies as may be fixed by
Commission. In the reply filed, the respondent shall specifically admit, deny
or explain the facts stated in the notice of inquiry or the petition and may
also state such additional facts as he considers necessary for proper
adjudication of the case. The reply shall be signed and verified and supported
by affidavit in the same manner as in the case of the petition. The respondent
shall also indicate in the reply whether he wishes to participate in the
proceedings and be heard in person.(2)The respondent shall serve a copy of the
reply along with the documents duly attested to be true copies on the
petitioner or his authorised representative and file proof of such service
with the Commission at the time of filing the reply.(3)Where the respondent
states additional facts, as may be necessary for the decision of the case, the
Commission may allow the petitioner to file a rejoinder to the reply filed by
the respondents. The procedure mentioned above for filing of the reply shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the filing of the rejoinder.(4)Every person who
intends to file objection or comments in regard to a matter pending before the
Commission pursuant to the advertisement and publication made for the purpose
(other than the persons to whom notices, processes, etc., have been issued
calling for reply) shall deliver to the designated officer, the statement of
the objection or comments with copies of the authenticated documents and
evidence in support thereof within the time fixed for the purpose as per
clause 11 of regulation 20.

### 24. Hearing of the matter.

(1)The Commission may determine the stages, manner, the place, the date and
the time of the hearing of the matter as considered appropriate.(2)The
Commission may decide the matter on the pleadings of the parties or may call
for evidence from the parties by way of affidavit or lead oral evidence in the
matter.(3)If the Commission directs evidence of a party to be led by way of
affidavit, or oral submission, the Commission may, if considered to be
necessary, or expedient, grant an opportunity to the other party to cross-
examine the persons giving the evidence.(4)The Commission may, if considered
necessary or expedient, direct that the evidence of any of the parties be
recorded by an officer or person designated for the purpose by the
Commission.(5)The Commission may permit such person or persons including
associations, forums and bodies corporate as it may consider appropriate to
participate in the proceedings before the Commission, if the Commission
considers that the participation of such person or persons will facilitate the
proceedings and the decision in the matter.(6)The Commission may direct the
parties to file written note of arguments or submissions in the matter.

### 25. Powers of the Commission to call for further information, evidence,
etc.

\- Powers of the Commission to call for further information, evidence, etc.,
shall be governed by the provisions of section 94(1) of the Act which reads as
"The Appropriate Commission shall, for the purposes of any inquiry or
proceedings under this Act, have the powers as are vested in a Civil Court
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for the following matters,
namely:(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining
him on oath;(b)discovery and production of any document or, other material
object producible as evidence;(c)receiving evidence on
affidavits;(d)requisitioning of any public record;(e)issuing commission for
the examination of witnesses;(f)reviewing its decisions, directions and
orders;(g)any other matters which may be prescribed.

### 26. Powers of entry and seizure.

\- The powers of entry and seizure shall be governed by the provisions of
section 96 of the Act which reads as "The Appropriate Commission or any
officer, not below the rank of a gazetted officer specially authorised in this
behalf by the Commission, may enter any building or place where the Commission
has reason to believe that any document relating to the subject matter of the
inquiry may be found, and may seize any such document or take extracts or
copies there from subject to the provisions of section 100 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973, in so far as it maybe applicable."

### 27. Reference of issues to others.

(1)At any stage of the proceedings, the Commission shall be entitled to refer
such issue or issues in the matter as it considers appropriate to persons
including but not limited to, the officers and consultants of the Commission
whom the Commission considers as qualified to give expert or specialized
advice or opinion.(2)The Commission may nominate, from time to time, any
person including, but not limited to, the officers and consultants to visit
any place or places for inspection and report on the existence or status of
the place or any facilities therein.(3)The Commission, if it thinks fit, may
direct the parties to appear before the persons designated in clause (1) or
(2) above to present their respective views on the issues or matters referred
to.(4)The report or the opinion received from such person shall form a part of
the record of the case and the parties shall be given the copies of the report
or opinion given by the person designated by the Commission. The parties shall
be entitled to file their version either in support or in opposition to the
report or the opinion.(5)The Commission shall duly take into account the
report or the opinion given by the person and the reply filed by the parties
while deciding the matter and if considered necessary, the Commission shall
examine the person giving the report or the opinion. The Commission shall,
however, not be bound by the report or the opinion given as conclusive.

### 28. Procedure to be followed where any party does not appear.

(1)Where, on the date fixed for hearing or any other date to which such
hearing may be adjourned, any of the party or his authorised agent or
representative does not appear when the matter is called for hearing, the
Commission may, in its discretion, either dismiss the petition for default
when the petitioner or the person who moves the Commission for hearing is
absent or proceed ex parte against the party failing to appear and hear and
decide the petition.(2)Where a petition is dismissed in default or decided ex
parte, the person aggrieved may file an application within 30 (thirty) days
from the date of such dismissal or being proceeded ex parte, as the case may
be, for recall of the order passed, and the Commission may recall the order on
such terms as it thinks fit, if the Commission is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for the non-appearance when the petition was called for
hearing.

### 29. Continuance of proceedings after death, etc.

\- Where in any proceedings, any of the parties to the proceedings dies or is
adjudicated as an insolvent or in the case of a Company under
liquidation/winding up, the proceedings shall continue with the successors-in-
interest, the executor, administrator, receiver, liquidator or other legal
representative of the party concerned.(2)The Commission may, for reasons to be
recorded, treat the proceedings as abated in case the Commission so directs
and dispenses with the need to bring the successors-in-interest, etc., on the
record of the case.(3)In case, any person wishes to bring on record the
successors-in-interest, etc., the application for the purpose shall be filed
within 90 days or within the time fixed by the Commission in each specific
case from the event requiring the successors-in-interest to come on record.

### 30. Proceedings to be open to public.

\- The proceedings before the Commission shall be open to the public. However,
admission to the hearing room shall be subject to availability of sitting
accommodation:Provided that the Commission, if it thinks fit and for reason to
be recorded in writing, order at any stage of the proceedings of any
particular case that the public generally or any particular person or group of
persons shall not have access to or remain in the room or building used by the
Commission.

### 31. Orders of the Commission.

(1)On conclusion of hearing of the case before the Commission, the Commission
shall pronounce the orders in the open Court or soon thereafter as may be
practicable on some future day. In the later case, when the Commission fixes a
future day for' pronouncing the orders, due notices intimating the date shall
be served on the concerned parties.(2)The order shall be dated and signed by
the Commission at the time of pronouncing it. Such orders shall not be,
afterwards, altered or added to unless and except there is any clerical or
arithmetical error arising therein from any oversight or omission.(3)The order
shall contain statement and counter statement of facts in brief, the points or
issues for determination, the decision thereon and the reasons for such
decision. This will include dissenting conclusion, if any, as specified in
sub-section (4).(4)While giving the orders after hearing, if the Chairperson
or any member of the Commission dissents, he shall give his dissenting
conclusion with reasons. The orders of the Commission shall be based on
majority view of the Commission as per section 14 of these regulations.(5)All
orders and decisions issued or communicated by the Commission shall be
certified by the signature of the Secretary or an officer empowered in this
behalf by the Commission and bear the official seal of the Commission.(6)All
orders of the Commission shall be communicated to the parties in the
proceedings under the signature of the Secretary or an officer empowered in
this behalf by the Commission.

### 32. Interim orders.

\- The Commission may pass interim orders as considered appropriate at any
stage of the proceedings. It may also do so when such interim orders are
sought for by the concerned parties.

### 33. Recovery of costs.

(1)Subject to such conditions and limitation as may be directed by the
Commission, the cost of and incidental to all proceedings shall be awarded at
the discretion of the Commission and the Commission shall have full power to
determine by whom or out of what funds and to what extent such costs are to be
paid and give all necessary directions for the aforesaid purposes.(2)The costs
shall be paid within 30 (thirty) days from the date of the order or within
such time as the Commission may, by order, direct. The order of the Commission
awarding costs shall be executed in the same manner as the decree/order of a
Civil Court.(3)The Commission may recover any cost or penalty imposed by it on
any party or parties to any proceedings, as land revenue in the event of any
default committed by such party or parties, within the time specified by the
Commission.

### 34. Inspection of records and supply of certified copies.

(1)Records of every proceeding shall be open, as a matter of right, to the
inspection of the parties or their authorised representatives at any time
either during the proceedings or after the orders are passed, subject to
payment of fee and complying with other terms, the Commission may
direct.(2)Records of every proceeding, except those parts, which, for reasons
specified by the Commission, are confidential or privileged or otherwise not
to be disclosed to any person, shall be open to inspection by any person other
than the parties to the petition either during the proceeding or after the
orders have been passed, subject to such person complying with such terms as
the Commission may direct, from time to time, including in regard to time,
place and manner of inspection and payment of prescribed fees.(3)Any person
shall be entitled to obtain certified copies of the orders, decisions,
directions given by the Commission as well as the pleadings, papers and other
parts of the records of the Commission to which he is entitled subject to
payment of fee and complying with other terms which the Commission may direct.

### 35. Judicial cover for the Commission and the proceedings.

\- Judicial cover for the Commission and the proceedings, as provided in
section 95 of the Act reads as follows:"All proceedings before the Appropriate
Commission shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings within the meaning of
sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code and the Appropriate Commission
shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of sections 345 and 346
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973."

### 36. Punishment for non-compliance of directions given by the Commission.

(1)In case any compliant is filed before the Commission by any person or if
the Commission is satisfied that any person has contravened any directions
issued by the Commission, rules or regulations made thereunder, the Commission
may after giving such person an opportunity of being heard in the matter, by
order in writing, direct that, without prejudice to any other penalty to which
he may be liable under this Act, such person shall pay, by way of penalty,
which shall not exceed rupees one lakh for each contravention and in case of a
continuing failure, with an additional penalty which may extend to rupees six
thousand for every day during which the failure continues after contravention
of the first such direction.(2)Any amount payable under this section, if not
paid, may be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue.

### 37. Offences by companies.

\- With respect to the provisions regarding offences by companies, section 149
of the Act governs them and reads as:"(1) Where an offence under this Act has
been committed by a company, every person, who at the time the offence was
committed was in charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct
of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be
guilty of having committed the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-
section shall render any such person liable to any punishment if he proves
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he has exercised
all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has
been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been
committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect
on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the
company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section
-(a)'company' means a body corporate and includes a firm or other association
of individuals; and(b)'director' in relation to a firm means a partner in the
firm."

### 38. Punishment for false evidence.

\- In accordance with section 193 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, whoever
intentionally gives false evidence in any of the proceedings of the Commission
or fabricates false evidence for the purpose of being used in any of the
proceedings be punishable with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.

### 39. Punishment for insult, interruption.

(1)In accordance with section 228 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, whoever
intentionally offer any insult or causes any interruption in any of the
proceedings of the Commission shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for
a term which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend Rs.1000/-
or with both.(2)Whoever intentionally offers any insult or causes any
interruption in the presence of the Commission shall be punishable in
accordance with section 345 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973.

## Chapter III  
Investigation of Certain Matters, Orders for Securing Compliance and Procedure
for Issuing Directions

### 40. Investigation of certain matters.

\- Section 128 of the Act provides for the investigation of certain matters
and reads as:(1)The Appropriate Commission may, on being satisfied that a
licensee has failed to comply with any of the conditions of licence or a
generating company or a licensee has failed to comply with any of the
provisions of this Act or the rules or regulations made thereunder, at any
time, by order in writing, direct any person (hereafter in this section
referred to as "Investigating Authority") specified in the order to
investigate the affairs of any generating company or licensee and to report to
that Commission on any investigation made by such Investigating
Authority:Provided that the Investigating Authority may, wherever necessary,
employ any auditor or any other person for the purpose of assisting (sic) in
any investigation under this section.(2)Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in section 235 of the Companies Act, 1956, the
Investigating Authority may, at any time, and shall, on being directed so to
do by the Appropriate Commission, cause an inspection to be made, by one or
more of its officers, of any licensee or generating company and his books of
account and the Investigating Authority shall supply to the licensees
generating company, as the case may be, a copy of his report on such
inspection.(3)It shall be the duty of every manager, managing director or
other officer of the licensee or generating company, as the case may be, to
produce before the Investigating Authority directed to make the investigation
under sub-section (1) or inspection under sub-section (2) all such books of
account, registers and other documents in his custody or power and to furnish
him with any statement and information relating to the affairs of the licensee
or generating company, as the case may be, as the said Investigating Authority
may require of him within such time as the said Investigating Authority may
specify.(4)Any Investigating Authority, directed to make an investigation
under sub-section (1), or inspection under sub-section (2), may examine on
oath any manager, managing director or other officer of the licensee or
generating company, as the case may be, in relation to his business) and may
administer oaths accordingly.(5)The Investigating Authority, shall, if it has
been directed by the Appropriate Commission to cause an inspection to be made,
and may, in any other case, report to the Appropriate Commission on any
inspection made under this section.(6)On receipt of any report under sub-
section (1) or sub-section (5), the Appropriate Commission may, after giving
such opportunity to the licensee or generating company, as the case may be, to
make a representation in connection with the report as in the opinion of the
Appropriate Commission seems reasonable, by order in writing -(a)require the
licensee or the generating company to take such action in respect of any
matter arising out of the report as the Appropriate Commission may think fit;
or(b)cancel the licence; or(d)direct the generating company to cease to carry
on the business of generation of electricity.(7)The Appropriate Commission
may, after giving reasonable notice to the licensee or the generating company,
as the case may be, publish the report submitted by the Investigating
Authority under sub-section (5) or such portion thereof as may appear to it to
be necessary.(8)The Appropriate Commission may specify the minimum information
to be maintained by the licensee or the generating company in their books, the
manner in which such information shall be maintained, the checks and other
verifications to be adopted by licensee or the generating company in that
connection and all other matters incidental thereto as are, in its opinion,
necessary to enable the Investigating Authority to discharge satisfactorily
its functions under this section.Explanation: For the purposes of this
section, the expression "licensee or the generating company" shall include in
the case of a licensee incorporated in India-(a)all its subsidiaries formed
for the purpose of carrying on the business of generation or transmission or
distribution or trading of electricity exclusively outside India; and(b)all
its branches whether situated in India or outside India. (9) All expenses of
and incidental to, any investigation made under this section shall be defrayed
by the licensee or the generating company, as the case may be, and shall have
priority over the debts due from the licensee or the generating company and
shall be recoverable as an arrear of land revenue".

### 41. Orders for securing compliance.

\- Section 129 of the Act provides for orders for securing compliance and
reads as:(1)Where the Appropriate Commission, on the basis of material in its
possession, is satisfied that a licensee is contravening, or is likely to
contravene, any of the conditions mentioned in his licence or conditions for
grant of exemption or the licensee or the generating company has contravened
or is likely to contravene any of the provisions of this Act, it shall, by an
order, give such directions as may be necessary for the purpose of securing
compliance with that condition or provision.(2)While giving direction under
sub-section (1), the Appropriate Commission shall have due regard to the
extent to which any person is likely to sustain loss or damage due to such
contravention."

### 42. Procedure for issuing directions.

\- Section 130 of the Act provides for procedure for issuing directions and
reads as:"The Appropriate Commission, before issuing any direction under
section 129 of the Act shall:(a)serve notice in the manner as may be specified
to the concerned licensee or the generating company;(b)publish the notice in
the manner as may be specified for the purpose of bringing the matters to the
attention of persons, likely to be affected or affected;(c)consider
suggestions and objections from the concerned licensee or generating company
and the persons, likely to be affected or affected

## Chapter IV  
Miscellaneous

### 43. Review of the decisions, directions and orders.

(1)The Commission may on its own or on the application of any of the persons
or parties concerned within 30 days of the making of any decision, direction
or order, review such decision, directions or orders on the ground that such
decision, direction or order was made under a mistake of fact, ignorance of
any material fact or any error apparent on the face of the record.(2)An
application for such review shall be filed in the same manner as a petition
under Chapter II of these regulations.

### 44. Appeal provisions in certain cases.

\- Any person aggrieved by an order of the Commission may file an appeal to
the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity subject to the provisions under section
111 of the Act.

### 45. Recognition for Consumer Associations.

(1)It shall be open to the Commission to permit any registered association /
forum or other bodies corporate or any group of consumers to participate in
any proceedings before the Commission.(2)It shall be open to the Commission
for the sake of timely completion of proceedings, to direct grouping of the
associations / forums, referred to above, so that they can make collective
affidavits.(3)The Commission may, as and when considered appropriate, notify a
procedure for recognition of associations, group, forum or bodies corporate as
registered consumer association for purposes of representation before the
Commission.(4)The Commission may appoint any officer or any other person to
represent the interest of the consumer in general or any class or classes of
consumers as the Commission may consider appropriate.(5)The Commission may
direct payment to the officer or person appointed to represent the consumers'
interest such fees, costs expense by such of the parties in the proceedings as
the Commission may consider appropriate.

### 46. Inspection of Commission's records and confidentiality.

(1)Records of the Commission, except those parts which for reason specified by
the Commission are confidential or privileged, shall open to inspection by
all, subject to the payment of fee and complying with the terms as the
Commission may direct.(2)The Commission may, on such terms and conditions as
the Commission considers appropriate, provide for the supply of the certified
copies of the documents and papers available with the Commission to any
person.(3)The Commission may, by order, direct that any information,
documents, other papers and materials in the possession of the Commission or
any of its officers, consultants, which are required by law or for other
reasons specified to be kept confidential or privileged shall not be available
for inspection or supply of copies, and the Commission may also direct that
such document, papers or materials shall not be used in any other manner
except as specifically authorised by the Commission.

### 47. Issue of orders and directions on procedures.

\- Subject to the provisions of the Act and these regulations, the Commission
may, from time to time, issue orders and directions in regard to the
implementation of the regulations and procedure to be followed and various
matters which the Commission has been empowered by these regulations to
specify or direct.

### 48. Saving of inherent power of the Commission.

(1)Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect
the inherent power of the Commission to make such orders as may be necessary
for ends of justice or to prevent the abuse of the process of the
Commission.(2)Nothing in these regulations shall bar the Commission from
adopting in conformity with the provisions of the Act, a procedure, which is
at variance with any of the provisions of these regulations, if the
Commission, in view of the special circumstances of a matter class of matters
and for reasons to be recorded in writing, deems it necessary or expedient for
dealing with such a matter or class of matters.(3)Nothing in these regulations
shall, expressly or impliedly bar the Commission to deal with any matter or
exercise any power under the Act for which no regulation have been framed, and
the Commission may deal with such matters with powers and functions in a
manner it thinks fit.

### 49. General power to amend.

\- The Commission may, at any time and on such terms as to costs or otherwise,
as it may think fit, amend any defect or error in any proceeding before it,
and all necessary amendments shall be made for the purpose of determining the
real question or issue arising in the proceedings.

### 50. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to any of the provisions of these
regulations, the Commission may, by general or special order, take action, for
removing the same, consistent with the provisions of the Act.

### 51. Power to dispense with the requirement of the regulations.

\- The Commission shall have the power, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
to dispense with the requirements of any of the regulations in a specific case
or cases subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified.

### 52. Extension or abridgement of time prescribed.

\- Subject to the provisions of the Act, the time prescribed by these
regulations or by order of the Commission for doing any act may be extended
(whether it has already expired or not) or abridged for sufficient reason by
order of the Commission.

### 53. Effect of non compliance.

\- Failure to comply with any requirement of these regulations shall not
invalidate any proceeding merely by reason of such failure unless the
Commission is of the view that such failure has resulted in miscarriage of
justice.

### 54. Enforcement of orders passed by the Commission.

\- The Secretary shall ensure enforcement and compliance of the orders passed
by the Commission, by the persons concerned in accordance with the provisions
of the Act and regulations and, if necessary, may seek the orders of the
Commission for directions.

### 55. Provisions of these regulations to be in addition to and not in
derogation of other regulations made under the Act.

\- The provisions of these regulations are in addition to and not in
derogation of any other regulations made by the Commission under the Act and
the provisions of these regulations shall not apply in case if any special
form for petition or application etc. or any special procedure has been
specified by the Commission in any other regulations made separately by the
Commission under the Act for any specific purposes mentioned in the
Act.Annexure 1Form 1(See regulation 18)General Heading for ProceedingsBefore
The Honourable Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory CommissionFiling No.Case
No.(To be filled by the Office)In the Matter of:(Gist of the purpose of the
petition or application)AndIn The Matter of:(Names and full address of the
petitioners / applicants and names and full addresses of the
respondents)Details of enclosures:(i)Form 2 (Affidavit)(ii)(iii)(iv)Annexure
2Form 2(See regulation 19( 1) Affidavit in support)Before The Honourable Tamil
Nadu Electricity Regulatory CommissionFiling No.Case No.(To be filled by the
Office)In the Matter of:(Gist of the purpose of the petition or
application)AndIn the Matter of:(Names and full address of the
petitioners/applicants and names and full addresses of the
respondents)Affidavit verifying the petition / applicationI, Son of
................. aged ........ residing at ............... do solemnly affirm
and say as follows:

### 1\. I am Director / Secretary..............of........................Ltd.,
the petitioner in the above matter and I am duly authorised by the said
petitioner to make this affidavit on its behalf.

### 2\. I solemnly affirm at............on...........this day of that-

(i)the contents of the above petition are true to my knowledge and I believe
that no part of it is false and no material has been concealed
therefrom;(ii)the statement made in paragraphs.................of the petition
herein now shown to me and marked with the letter 'A' are true to my
knowledge, and(iii)the statements made in paragraphs.................marked
with the letter 'B' are based on information received from and I believe them
to be true.Identified before me by:

