## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Advocates' Welfare Fund Act, 1987

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Advocates' Welfare Fund Act, 1987

## Act 49 of 1987

  * Published on 27 May 1987 
  * Commenced on 27 May 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 May 1987.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Advocates' Welfare Fund Act, 1987Tamil Nadu Act 49 of
1987Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund Act,
1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 49 of 1987). - The constitution of a Welfare Fund for the
payment of retirement benefits to the advocates in the State of Tamil Nadu and
for conferring on them the benefits connected therewith or incidental thereto
has been engaging the attention of this Government for quite some time. The
Government have decided to constitute a Fund called the Tamil Nadu Advocates
Welfare Fund in the State to provide for payment of retirement benefits to the
advocates in the State and for conferring on them the benefits connected
therewith or incidental thereto.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 16th November 1987 (page 340).Statement of Objects
and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil
Nadu Act 20 of 1990). - The Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund Act, 1987 (Tamil
Nadu Act 49 of 1987) was enacted in order to provide for the constitution of a
Welfare Fund for the benefit of advocates on cessation of practice and for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto in the State of Tamil Nadu.
On the recommendation of the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu, the Government have
decided to amend sections 2, 9, 13 and 16 of the said Act so as to enable the
Bar Council of Tamil Nadu to have more members admitted in the Fund and to
extend the benefit of the scheme to the senior advocates who seek admission to
the membership in the Fund by giving due weightage to the number of years of
their practice before such admission.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 3rd May 1990 (page 66).Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu
Act 56 of 1992). - The Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu
Act 49 of 1987) has been enacted to provide for the constitution of a Welfare
Fund for the benefit of advocates on cessation of practice and for matters
connected therewith and incidental thereto in this State. The Bar Council of
Tamil Nadu has proposed certain amendments to the said Act on the lines of the
provisions in the Kerala Advocates' Welfare Fund Act, among other things, the
Bar Council of Tamil Nadu has suggested to empower it to print and distribute
welfare fund stamps and also to make it compulsory for every advocate
appearing before any Court, Tribunal or other authority, to fix the welfare
fund stamp on every vakalatnama to the value of two rupees in addition to the
Court-fee stamp affixed thereon. It has also been suggested that power may be
taken by the Government to amend the Schedule. The Government have examined
the above suggestions of the Bar Council and have decided to amend the said
Act for the purpose.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV, Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
Extraordinary, dated 23rd April 1992 (Issue No. 240, page 68).Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1995
(Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 1995). - The Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund Act, 1987
(Tamil Nadu Act 49 of 1987) has been enacted to provide for the constitution
of a welfare fund for the benefit of advocates on cessation of practice and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, in this State.The Bar
Council of Tamil Nadu has proposed to pay Rs. 1,00,000 as death benefit to the
legal heirs of the advocates who are members of the Fund irrespective of the
period of practice and to pay up to Rs. 50,000 as a lump sum benefit to the
members of the Fund on cessation of practice. The lump sum payment as death
benefit is of a substantial amount which would have to come out of the Fund.
Persons with prescribed qualifications, who had been employed in any State
Government or the Central Government or other authority or employer and
received terminal benefits also, can get enrolled themselves as advocates and
join as members of the Fund. Having regard to the purpose of giving relief to
advocate members who have put in a number of years of practice in the Bar, and
the limited resources of the Fund, it is considered necessary to exclude the
nominee or legal heirs of such advocate members who had been employed in any
State Government or the Central Government or other authority or employer and
received the terminal benefits, from the entitlement of the lump sum payment
of the death benefit of Rs. 1,00,000. It has also been proposed to add an
Explanation in the Schedule so as to treat any fraction of a year of
membership of the Fund as a full complete year. With a view to make the
Advocate Welfare Fund self-sustaining, the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu has also
proposed to increase the subscription from Rs. 50 to Rs. 100 where the
standing of the advocate at the Bar is less than ten years, from Rs. 100 to
Rs. 200 where the standing of the advocate at the Bar is ten years or more and
a life tune subscription of Rs. 10,000 for the designated senior advocates and
Rs. 2,500 for other advocates. It has further been proposed to increase the
stamp value to be affixed in the vakalathnama from Rs. 2 to Rs. 5 so as to
augment the Fund. The Government have decided to accept the above suggestions
of the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and to amend the said Act suitably for the
purpose.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in
Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, Extraordinary, dated
the 7th November, 1995 (Page 141).Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 44 of 2000).
- The Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 49 of 1987)
provides for the constitution of a Welfare Fund for the benefit of advocates
and for payment of lump sum amount from out of the Fund on cessation of
practice or on the death of the member of the Fund.The Bar Council of Tamil
Nadu has recommended to enhance the amount paid to the nominee or legal heir
of member of the Advocates Welfare Fund on the death of the member from one
lakh rupees to two lakh rupees. It has also recommended for two-fold increase
in the amount to be paid to the member of the Fund, or cessation of practice.
To meet the additional expenditure, the Bar Council has recommended to
increase the value of the Welfare Fund Stamp, the re-admission fee and the
registration fee. The Government have decided to accept the recommendations
and to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act49of 1987 for the purpose.2\. The Bill
seeks to give effect to the above decision.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Advocates' Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2013. - The Tamil Nadu Advocates
Welfare Fund Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 49 of 1987) provides for the
constitution of a Welfare Fund for the benefit of advocates and for payment of
lumpsum amount from out of the Fund on cessation of practice or on the death
of the member of the Fund.2\. The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry has
resolved to enhance the financial assistance paid to the nominee or legal heir
of a member of the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund on the death of the
member, from two lakh rupees to five lakh and twenty-five thousand rupees. To
meet the additional expenditure, the Bar Council has recommended to increase
the value of the Advocate Welfare Fund Stamp, the membership admission fee,
the annual subscription and life time subscription. The Government have
decided to accept the recommendations and to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 49
of 1987 suitably for the purpose.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Received the assent of the Governor on 1987 and published in
Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 27th May, 1987.An Act to provide for the constitution of a Welfare Fund
for the benefit of advocates on cessation of practice and for matters
connected therewith or incidents thereto in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it
enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu is the Thirty-
eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Advocates' Welfare Fund Act,
1987.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)This Act, except
clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 3 and 12, shall come into force at
once and clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 3 and section 12 shall come
into force on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"advocate" means a
person whose name has been entered in the roll of advocates prepared and
maintained by the Bar Council under section 17 of the Advocates Act, 1961
(Central Act 25 of 1961) and who is a member of a Bar Association or an
Advocates Association;(b)"Advocates Association" means an association of
advocates [recognised and registered by the Bar Council] [Substituted for
'recognized by the Bar Council' by the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund
(Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1990).] under section 13;(c)"Bar
Association'" means an association of advocates [recognised and registered by
the Bar Council] [Substituted for 'recognized by the Bar Council' by the Tamil
Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment' Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of
1990).] under section 13;(d)"Bar Council" means the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu
constituted under section 3 of the Advocates Act, 1961 (Central Act 25 of
1961);(e)"cessation of practice" means removal of the name of an advocate from
the State roll under section 26-A of the Advocates Act, 1961 (Central Act 25
of 1961);(f)"dependents" means the spouse, parent and [children dependent on
the member of the Fund] [Substituted for 'minor children or such of them as
exist' by the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil
Nadu Act 56 of 1992).];(g)"Fund" means the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund
constituted under section 3;(h)"Government" means the State
Government;(i)"member of the Fund" means an advocate admitted to the benefits
of the Fund and continuing to be a member thereof under the provisions of this
Act;(j)"prescribed" means prescribed by the Bar Council by rules made under
this Act;(k)"stamp" means the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund Stamp printed
and distributed under section 22;(l)"suspension of practice" means voluntary
suspension of practice as an advocate or suspension by the Bar Council for
misconduct;(m)"Trustee Committee" means the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund
Trustee Committee established under section 4;(n)"Vakalathnam" a includes
memorandum of appearance or any other document by which an advocate is
empowered to appear or plead before any Court, Tribunal or other
authority;(o)[ "year" means the financial year.] [Clause (o) was added by the
Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 44 of
2000).]

### 3. Advocates Welfare Fund.

(1)The Government shall constitute a fund called the Tamil Nadu Advocates
Welfare Fund.(2)There shall be credited to the Fund-(a)all amounts paid by the
Bar Council under section 12;(b)any other contribution made by the Bar
Council;(c)any voluntary donation or contribution made to the Fund by the Bar
Council of India, any Bar Association, any Advocates Association/ or other
association or institution, or any advocate or other person;(d)any grant made
by the Government to the Fund;(e)any sum borrowed under section 10;(f)all sums
collected under section 15;(g)all sums received from the Life Insurance
Corporation of India on the death of an advocate under a Group Insurance
Policy;(h)any profit or dividend or refund received from the Life Insurance
Corporation of India in respect of policies of Group Insurance of the members
of the Fund;(i)any interest or dividend or other retum-on any investment made
of any part of the Fund; and(j)all sums collected by way of sale of stamps
under section 22.(3)The sums specified in sub-section (2) shall be paid to, or
collected by, such agencies, at such intervals and in such manner, and the
accounts of the Fund shall be maintained in such manner, as may be prescribed.

### 4. Establishment of Trustee Committee.

(1)With effect on and from such date as the Government may, by notification,
appoint in this behalf, there shall be established a Committee by the name the
Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund Trustee Committee.(2)The Trustee Committee
shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with
power to acquire, hold and dispose of property and shall, by the said name,
sue and be sued.(3)The Trustee Committee shall consist of-(a)the Advocate
General of the State of Tamil Nadu, who shall be the Chairman of the Trustee
Committee, Ex-Officio;(b)the Secretary to the Government in Law Department,
Ex-Officio;(c)the Secretary to the Government in Home Department, Ex-
Officio;(d)the Government Pleader or the Public Prosecutor, as may be
nominated by the Government;(e)three members of the Bar Council nominated by
it for a period of three years; and(f)the Secretary of the Bar Council who
shall be the Secretary of the Trustee Committee, Ex-Officio.

### 5. Disqualification and removal of nominated member of Trustee Committee.

(1)A person shall be disqualified for being nominated under clause (e) of
subsection (3) of section 4 as, and for being, a member of the Trustee
Committee, if he-(a)becomes of unsound mind; or(b)is adjudged insolvent;
or(c)is absent without leave of the Trustee Committee for more than three
consecutive meetings of the Committee:Provided that the member ceasing to hold
office under this clause may be restored by the Trustee Committee, if such
member makes an application for the condonation of the absence; or(d)is a
defaulter to the Fund (in case he is a member of the Fund); or(e)is convicted
by a criminal Court for an offence involving moral turpitude, unless such
conviction has been set aside; or(f)ceases to practise as an advocate.(2)The
Government may remove any member who is or has become disqualified under sub-
section (1) from the membership of the Trustee Committee:Provided that no
order removing any member shall be passed unless the member and the Bar
Council have been given an opportunity of being heard.

### 6. Resignation by nominated members of Trustee Committee and filling up of
casual vacancies.

(1)Any member nominated under clause (e) of sub-section (3) of section 4 may
resign his office by giving three months notice in writing to the Bar Council
and on such resignation being accepted by the Bar Council, such member shall
vacate his office.(2)A casual vacancy in the office of a member who has
resigned may be filled up, as soon as may be, by the Bar Council, and a member
so nominated shall hold office only so long as the member in whose place he is
nominated would have been entitled to hold office if the vacancy did not
occur.

### 7. Act of Trustee Committee not to be invalidated by vacancy, defect, etc.

\- No act done or no proceeding taken by or under this Act by the Trustee
Committee shall be invalidated merely by reason of-(a)any vacancy or defect in
the constitution of the committee; or(b)any defect or irregularity in the
nomination of any person as a member thereof; or(c)any defect or irregularity
in such act or proceeding not affecting the merits of the case.

### 8. Vesting and application of Fund.

\- The Fund shall vest in, and be held and applied by, the Trustee Committee
subject to the provisions, and for the purposes, of this Act.

### 9. Functions of Trustee Committee.

(1)The Trustee Committee shall administer the Fund.(2)In the administration of
the Fund, the Trustee Committee shall, subject to the provisions of this Act
and the rules made thereunder,-(a)hold the amounts and assets belonging to the
Fund in trust;(b)receive applications for admission or re-admission to the
Fund, and dispose of such applications within ninety days from the date of
receipt thereof;(c)receive applications from the members of the Fund, their
nominees or legal heirs, as the case may be, for payment out of the Fund,
conduct such enquiry as it deems necessary and dispose of the applications [x
x x] [Words 'within five months from the date of receipt thereof' were omitted
by the Tamil Nadu Ad 001 atcs Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu
Act 20 of 1990).];(d)record in the minutes book of the Trustee Committee, its
decision on the applications;(e)pay to the applicants amounts at the rates
specified in the Schedule;(f)send such periodical and annual reports as may be
prescribed, to the Government and the Bar Council;(g)communicate to the
applicants [by post] [Substituted for 'by registered post with acknowledgment
due' by Tamil Nadu Act 56 of 1992.] under certificate of posting the decisions
of the Trustee Committee in respect of applications for admission or re-
admission to the Fund or claims to the benefit of the Fund;(h)do such other
acts as are, or may be required to be done under this Act and the rules made
thereunder.

### 9A. [ Power to give direction. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 56 of 1992.]

\- The Bar Council or the Trustee Committee may give to the Advocates
Association or Bar Association such directions as, in its opinion, are
necessary or expedient for carrying out the purposes of this Act.]

### 10. Funds, borrowing and investment.

(1)The Trustee Committee may, with the prior approval of the Government and
the Bar Council, borrow, from time to time, any sum required for carrying out
the purposes of this Act.(2)The Trustee Committee shall deposit all moneys and
receipts forming part of the Fund in any scheduled bank or invest the same in
loans to any Corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government or the
State Government or in loans floated by the Central Government or the State
Government or in any other manner as the Bar Council may, from time to time,
direct with the prior approval of the Government.(3)All amounts due and
payable under this Act and all expenditure relating to the management and
administration of the Fund shall be paid out of the Fund.(4)The accounts of
the Trustee Committee shall be audited annually by a Chartered Accountant
appointed by the Bar Council.(5)The accounts of the Trustee Committee, as
certified by the auditor, together with the audit report thereon, shall be
forwarded to the Bar Council and the Government by the Trustee Committee and
the Bar Council may issue such directions as it deems fit to the Trustee
Committee in respect thereof.(6)The Trustee Committee shall comply with the
directions issued by the Bar Council under sub-section (5).

### 11. Powers and duties of Secretary.

\- The Secretary of the Trustee Committee shall-(a)be the chief executive
authority of the Trustee Committee and responsible for carrying out its
decisions;(b)represent the Trustee Committee in all suits and proceedings for
and against the Trustee Committee;(c)authenticate by his signature all
decisions and instructions of the Trustee Committee;(d)operate the bank
accounts of the Trustee Committee jointly with Chairman;(e)convene meetings of
the Trustee Committee and prepare its minutes;(f)attend the meetings of the
Trustee Committee with all the necessary records and information;(g)maintain
such forms, registers and other records as may be prescribed, from time to
time, and do all correspondence relating to the Trustee Committee;(h)prepare
an annual statement of business transacted by the Trustee Committee during
each financial year;(hh)[ inspect and verify periodically the accounts and
registers of the Advocates Association and Bar Association regarding the sale
of stamps and other matters connected therewith;] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu
Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 56 of 1992).]
and(i)do such other acts as may be directed by the Trustee Committee and the
Bar Council.

### 12. Transfer of certain monies to the Fund.

\- The Bar Council shall pay to the Fund annually an amount equal to twenty
per cent of the enrolment fees realised by it.

### 13. [Recognition and registration by Bar Council] [Substituted for
'Recognition by Bar Council' by the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund
(Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1990).] of any association of
Advocates.

\- [(1)(a) Any association of advocates, known by any name, functioning in any
part of the State may, before a date to be notified, or before such extended
date as may be notified, by the Bar Council in this behalf, apply for
recognition and registration to the Bar Council, in such form as may be
prescribed.] [Sub-section (1) was substituted by the Tamil Nadu Act 20 of
1990.](b)Any association of advocates constituted after the date of
publication of the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1990
(Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1990), in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, may, apply
for recognition and registration to the Bar Council in such form as may be
prescribed].(2)Every application for [recognition and registration]
[Substituted for 'recognition' by the Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1990.] shall be
accompanied by the rules or bye-laws of the association, names and addresses
of the office bearers of the association and an up to date list of the members
of the association knowing the name, address, age, date of enrolment and the
ordinary place of practice of each member.(3)The Bar Council may, after such
enquiry, as it deems necessary, [recognise the association and issue a
certificate of registration] [Substituted for 'recognise the association and
issue a certificate of recognition' by the Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1990.] in such
form as may be prescribed.(4)The decision of the Bar Council under sub-section
(3) shall be final.Explanation. - [Omitted by the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare
Fund (Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1990).]

### 14. Duties of Bar Associations and Advocates Associations.

(1)Every Bar Association and Advocates Association shall, on or before the
15th April of every year, furnish to the Bar Council a list of its members as
on the 31st March of that year.(2)Every Bar Association and Advocates
Association shall inform the Bar Council of-(a)any change in the membership
including admissions and re-admissions within thirty days of such
change;(b)the death or other cessation of practice or voluntary suspension of
practice of any of its members within thirty days from the date of occurrence
thereof; and(c)such other matters as may be required by the Bar Council, from
time to time.(3)[ Every Advocates Association and every Bar Association shall
carry out the directions given by the Bar Council or the Trustee Committee, as
the case may be.] [Sub-section (3) was added by the Tamil Nadu Act 56 of
1992.]

### 14A. [ Cancellation of recognition and registration of Advocates
Association and Bar Association. [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act 56 of 1992.]

\- Where the Advocates Association or the Bar Association fails to discharge
any of the duties imposed under section 14, or fails to carry out the
direction given under section 9-A, the Bar Council may, for reasons to be
recorded, by order, cancel the recognition and registration of such
Association:Provided that no order canceling the recognition and registration
of any Advocates Association or Bar Association shall be passed unless the
Advocates Association or the Bar Association has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.]

### 15. Membership in the Fund.

(1)Every advocate practising in any Court in the State and being a member of a
Bar Association or an Advocates Association, may apply to the Trustee
Committee for admission as a member of the Fund in such form as may be
prescribed.(2)On receipt of an application under sub-section (1), the Trustee
Committee shall make such enquiry as it deems fit and either admit the
applicant to the Fund or, for reasons to be recorded in writing, reject the
application:Provided that no order rejecting an application shall be passed
unless the applicant has been given an opportunity of being heard.(3)Every
applicant shall pay an application fee of [one thousand rupees] [Substituted
for 'two hundred rupees' by Act No. 2 of 2013, dt. 23.2.2013.] along with the
application to the account of the Trustee Committee.(4)[ Every member of the
Fund shall pay an annual subscription to the Fund on or before the [30th June]
[Sub-section (4) was substituted by the Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 1995.] of every
year or a life-time subscription, as the case may be, at the following rates,
namely:-

(a) |  Where the standing of the advocates at the Bar is less thanten years. | [Five thousand rupees] [Substituted by Act No. 2 of 2013, dt. 23.2.2013.]per annum.  
---|---|---  
(b) |  Where the standing of the advocates at the Baris ten years or more. | [one thousand rupees] [Substituted by Act No. 2 of 2013, dt. 23.2.2013.]per annum.  
(c) |  Life-time subscription where the advocate isdesignated as senior advocate under section 16 of the AdvocatesAct, 1961 (Central Act 25 of 1961). | [Twenty-five thousand rupees] [Substituted by Act No. 2 of 2013, dt. 23.2.2013.].  
(d) | Life time subscription for other advocates. | [Ten Thousand rupees.] [Substituted by Act No. 2 of 2013, dt. 23.2.2013.]  
  
(5)Any member of the Fund who fails to remit the annual subscription for any
year before the [30th June] [Substituted for '31st March' by the Tamil Nadu
Act 44 of 2000.] of that year shall be liable to be removed from the
membership in the Fund.(6)A person removed from the membership in the Fund
under sub-section (5) may be re-admitted to the Fund on payment of the arrears
with the re-admission fee of [fifty rupees] [Substituted for 'ten rupees' by
the Tamil Nadu Act 44 of 2000.] within six months from the date of
removal.(7)Every member of the Fund shall, at the time of admission to the
membership to the Fund, make nomination conferring on one or more of his
dependants the right to receive, in the event of his death, any amount payable
to the member under this Act.(8)If a member of the Fund nominates more than
one person under sub-section (7), he shall specify in the nomination the
amount or share payable to each of the nominees.(9)A member of the Fund may,
at any time, cancel a nomination by sending a notice in writing to the Trustee
Committee, provided that he sends along with such notice a fresh nomination
together with a registration fee of [fifty rupees] [Substituted for 'five
rupees' by the Tamil Nadu Act 44 of 2000.].(10)Every member of the Fund who
has requested the removal of his name whom the State roll under section 26-A
of the Advocates Act, 1961 (Central Act 25 of 1961), or who voluntarily
suspends practice shall, within fifteen days of such request or suspension,
intimate that fact to the Trustee Committee and if any member of the Fund
fails to do so without sufficient reasons, the Trustee Committee may reduce,
in accordance with such principles as may be prescribed, the amount payable to
that member under this Act.

### 16. Payment of amount on cessation of practice.

(1)Every advocate who has been a member of the Fund for a period of not less
than five years shall, on his cessation of practice, be paid an amount at the
rate specified in the Schedule:Provided that where the Trustee Committee is
satisfied that a member of the Fund ceases to practice within a period of five
years from the date of his admission as a member of the Fund as a result of
[any permanent physical or mental disability] [Substituted for 'any permanent
disability' by the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1992
(Tamil Nadu Act 56 of 1992).], the Trustee Committee may pay the member of the
Fund an amount at the rate specified in the Schedule.[Explanation I.
[Explanations I and II were added by the Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1990.] \- For
the purpose of calculating the number of years of standing of a member of the
Fund for the purpose of this sub-section, every four years of practice as an
advocate before the admission of a member to the Fund shall be counted as one
year's standing and every year of practice over and above four years before
such admission shall be counted equivalent to three months' standing and the
total number of years of standing so counted shall be added to the number of
years of practice after such admission.Explanation II. - The period during
which a member of the Fund remained under suspension shall not be considered
for the purpose of counting the years of standing.][(1-A) Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), every member of the Fund who has
completed or completes twenty-five years of practice as an advocate on the
date of coming into force of the Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund (Amendment)
Act, 1995 shall, on completion of five years as a member of the Fund and on
his cessation of practice, be paid a lump sum amount of [one lakh rupees.]
[Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 1995.](2)Where a member of the Fund dies
before receiving the amount payable under sub-section (1), his nominee or
legal heir, as the case may be, shall be paid the amount payable to the
deceased member of the Fund.(3)[ Any person removed from the membership in the
Fund under subsection (5) of section 15 and re-admitted to the Fund under sub-
section (6) of that section shall not be entitled to payment of any amount
from the Fund under this Act during the period between the date of his removal
from the membership in the Fund and the date of re-admission.] [Inserted by
the Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1990.](4)[ Any member who is suspended by the Bar
Council for misconduct under the Advocates Act, 1961 (Central Act 25 of 1961)
shall not be entitled to payment of any amount from the Fund under this Act,
for the period of such suspension.] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act 20 of
1990.](5)[ Where a member of the Fund dies, his nominee or legal heir, as the
case maybe, shall be paid an amount of [five lakh and twenty-five thousand
rupees] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 1995.] :Provided that if such
member who, before his death, was in receipt of pension, gratuity or other
terminal benefits from any State Government or Central Government or other
authority or employer, his nominee or legal heir, as the case may be, shall
not be entitled for the payment of the amount of [five lakh and twenty-five
thousand rupees] [Substituted for 'two lakh rupees' by Act No. 2 of 2013, dt.
23.2.2013.] under this sub-section.](6)[ Every member or his nominee or legal
heir, as the case may be, shall apply for payment of the Fund, to the Trustee
Committee, in such form, as may be prescribed.] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu
Act 20 of 1990.](7)[ Where a person, who has been paid an amount under sub-
section (1) or (1-A) has been admitted as an advocate again under section 24
of the Advocates Act, 1961 (Central Act 25 of 1961), desires to be re-admitted
to the Fund shall, on an application made in the same manner as specified in
section 15 and on repayment of the amount received by him under sub-section
(1) or (1-A), as the case may be, with interest calculated at the rate of
twelve per cent per annum, be re-admitted to the Fund. He shall not be
entitled to payment of any amount from the Fund under this Act, during the
period between the date of his cessation of practice and the date of re-
admission.] [Added by the Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 1995.]

### 17. Restriction on alienation, attachment, etc., of interest of member in
the Fund.

(1)The interest of any member in the Fund, or the right of a member of the
Fund or his nominee or legal heirs to receive any amount from the Fund, shall
not be assigned, alienated, or charged and shall not be liable to attachment
under any decree or order of any Court, Tribunal or other authority.(2)No
creditor shall be entitled to proceed against the Fund or the interest therein
of any member or his nominee or legal heirs.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section, "creditor" includes the State, or an official assignee or
official receiver appointed under the law relating to insolvency for the time
being in force.

### 18. Group Life Insurance for members and other benefits.

\- The Bar Council may, for the welfare of the members of the Fund -(a)obtain
from the Life Insurance Corporation of India policies of Group Insurance on
the life of the members of the Fund;(b)provide in such manner as may be
prescribed for medical and educational facilities for the members of the Fund
and their dependants; and(c)provide for such other benefits as may be
prescribed

### 19. Meetings of Trustee Committee.

(1)The Trustee Committee shall meet at least once in throe calendar months or
more than often if found necessary to transact business under this Act and the
rules made thereunder.(2)[Four members] [Substituted for 'Three members' by
the Tamil Nadu Act 56 of 1992.] of the Trustee Committee shall form the quorum
for a meeting of the Committee.(3)The Chairman or, in his absence, a member
elected from among the members present, shall preside over a meeting of the
Trustee Committee.(4)Any matter coming up before a meeting of the Trustee
Committee shall be decided by a majority of the members present and voting at
the meeting and, in the case of an equality of votes, the Chairman or the
member presiding over the meeting shall have a casting vote.

### 20. Traveling and daily allowances to members of Trustee Committee.

\- The non-official members of the Trustee Committee shall be entitled to be
paid such traveling allowance and daily allowance as are admissible to the
members of the Bar Council.

### 21. Appeal against decision of Trustee Committee.

(1)An appeal against any decision of the Trustee Committee shall lie to the
Bar Council.(2)The appeal shall be in the prescribed form and shall be
accompanied by-(a)a copy of the order appealed against; and(b)a receipt
evidencing payment of twenty-five rupees to the credit of the Bar Council in
any of the branches of the State Bank of India in Tamil Nadu.(3)The appeal
shall be filed within thirty days from the date of receipt of the order
appealed against.(4)The decision of the Bar Council on the appeal shall be
final.

### 22. Printing and distribution of Advocates Welfare Fund Stamps by Bar
Council.

\- [(1) The Bar Council shall cause to be printed and distributed welfare fund
stamps of the value of [ten rupees] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Act 43 of
1995.] inscribed "Tamil Nadu Advocates Welfare Fund Stamp" in such size,
design and colour, as may be decided by the Bar Council.](2)[Omitted by the
Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 1995](3)The custody of the stamps shall be with the Bar
Council.(4)The Bar Council shall control the distribution and sale of the
stamps through the Bar Associations and Advocates Associations.(5)The Bar
Council, the Bar Associations and Advocates Associations shall keep proper
accounts of the stamps in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed.(6)The Bar Associations and Advocates Associations shall purchase
the stamps from the Bar Council after paying the value thereof less ten per
cent of such value towards incidental expenses.

### 23. Vakalathnama to bear stamps.

\- [(1) Every vakalathnama filed before any Court or tribunal or other
authority shall be affixed with the [stamp to the value] [Substituted by the
Tamil Nadu Act 56 of 1992.] of [thirty rupees] [Substituted for 'ten rupees'
by Act No. 2 of 2013, dt. 23.2.2013.] in addition to the Court-fee stamps, if
any, and no vakalathnama shall be valid unless it is so stamped:Provided that
this sub-section shall not apply to any vakalathnama filed on behalf of the
Central or State Government.](2)The value of the stamp shall neither be costs
in a case nor be collected in any event from the client.(3)Any contravention
of the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) by any member of the
Fund shall disentitle him either in whole or in part to the benefits of the
Fund and the Trustee Committee shall report such instances to the Bar Council
for appropriate action.(4)Every stamp affixed on vakalathnama filed before any
Court, Tribunal or other authority shall be canceled in such manner as may be
prescribed.

### 24. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or any rule made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Government or the Trustee Committee or the
Bar Council for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule
made thereunder.

### 25. Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Court.

\- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal with any
question or to determine any matter which is by or under this Act required to
be settled, decided or dealt with or to be determined by the Trustee Committee
or the Bar Council.

### 26. Power to summon witnesses and take evidence.

\- The Trustee Committee and the Bar Council shall, for the purpose of any
enquiry under this Act, have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court
while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of
1908) in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)enforcing the attendance
of any person or examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and
production of documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavit;(d)issuing
commissions for the examination of witnesses.

### 27. Power to make rules.

\- The Bar Council may, with the previous approval of the Government, by
notification, make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the
provisions of this Act.

### 28. [ Power to amend Schedule. [Added by the Tamil Nadu Act 56 of 1992.]

(1)The Government may, by notification, on the recommendation of the Trustee
Committee and having due regard to the liability' of the amount in the Fund,
amend the rates specified in the Schedule.(2)Every notification issued under
this section shall, as soon as possible, after it is issued, be placed on the
table of the Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of the session in
which it is so placed or the next session the Assembly takes any modification
in any such notification or the Assembly decides that the notification should
not be issued, the notification shall thereafter have effect only such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under the notification.][Schedule] [Substituted by
the Tamil Nadu Act 44 of 2000.][See Sections 9(2)(e), 16 and 28]

| (Rs.)  
---|---  
25 years and above as a member of the Fund | 1,00,000  
24 years as a member of the Fund | 96,000  
23 years as a member of the Fund | 92,000  
22 years as a member of the Fund | 88,000  
21 years as a member of the Fund | 84,000  
20 years as a member of the Fund | 80,000  
19 years as a member of the Fund | 76,000  
18 years as a member of the Fund | 72,000  
17 years as a member of the Fund | 68,000  
16 years as a member of the Fund | 64,000  
15 years as a member of the Fund | 60,000  
14 years as a member of the Fund | 56,000  
13 years as a member of the Fund | 52,000  
12 years as a member of the Fund | 48,000  
11 years as a member of the Fund | 44,000  
10 years as a member of the Fund | 40,000  
9 years as a member of the Fund | 36,000  
8 years as a member of the Fund | 32,000  
7 years as a member of the Fund | 28,000  
6 years as a member of the Fund | 24,000  
5 years as a member of the Fund | 20,000  
4 years as a member of the Fund | 16,000  
3 years as a member of the Fund | 12,000  
2 years as a member of the Fund | 8,000  
1 year as a member of the Fund | 4,000  
  
Explanation. - In calculating the total number of years of membership of the
Fund, any fraction of a year of membership of the Fund shall be construed as a
full completed year.

