## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Municipal Corporations Service Rules, 1996

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Municipal Corporations Service Rules, 1996

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATIONS-SERVICE-RULES-1996 of 1996

  * Published on 26 September 1996 
  * Commenced on 26 September 1996 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 September 1996.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Municipal Corporations Service Rules, 1996Published vide
Notification G.O.Ms. No. 237, Municipal Administration and Water Supply
(Election), dated 26th September 1996Published Part III-Section 1(b), Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, Extraordinary, No. 508, dated the 27.9.1996, pages
1-23No. SRO. B-187(a)/96. - In exercise of the power conferred by section 106
of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1971), section 108 of the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981
(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981), section 8 of the Tiruchirappalli City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1994), section 8 of the
Tirunelveli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1994)
and section 8 of the Salem City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of 1994) and in supersession of all previous Notifications issued and
the rules published to the Corporation of Madurai on this subject, the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

## Part I

Preliminary

### 1. Short title, commencement and applicability of these rules.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Municipal Corporations Service
Rules, 1996.(2)They shall come in to force on the 1st day of October
1996.(3)They shall apply to the employees of all the municipal corporations in
the State except to the Corporation of Chennai.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless therein anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(1)"Act" means the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971) in the case of Corporation of Madurai and the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981) in
the cases of Corporations of Coimbatore, Tiruchirappalli, Tirunelveli and
Salem;(2)A person is said to be "appointed to the service" when in accordance
with these rules, or in accordance with the rules applicable at that time, as
the case may be, he discharges for the first time the duties of a post borne
on the cadre of the services or commences the probation, instruction or
training, if any, prescribed for members thereof;(3)"Appointment Committee"
means the Committee constituted by the Council under the Act for the purpose
of appointment of employees under Glass III and IV;(4)"Approved candidates"
means a candidate whose name appears in the authoritative list of candidates
selected for appointment to any service, class or category of the
service;(5)"Approved probationer" in a service, class or category of the
service means a member of that class or category of the service who has
satisfactorily completed his probation in a service;(6)"Backward Classes" and
"Most Backward Classes" mean the communities classified as such in the General
Rules for the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services;(7)"Commissioner"
means the Commissioners of Madurai or Coimbatore or Tiruchirappalli or
Tirunelveli or Salem, as the case may be;(8)"Corporation" means the
Corporations of Madurai or Coimbatore or Tiruchirappalli or Tirunelveli or
Salem, as the case may be;(9)"Discharge of a member of the service" means
dispensing with the service for want of vacancy in a Municipal
Corporation;(10)A person is said to be "on duty" as a member of the
service-(a)when he is performing the duties of a post borne on the cadre of
the service or is undergoing the probation instruction or training, if any,
prescribed for the service; or(b)when he is on joining time, or(c)when he is
absent from duty during vacation or on authorised holidays or on casual leave
taken in accordance with the instructions regulating such leave having been on
duty immediately before and immediately after such absence or;(d)When he has
compulsorily to wait for orders of posting on return from leave.(11)"General
rules" means the rules in Part II of these rules.(12)"Member of the service"
means a person who has been appointed to the service and who has not retired
or resigned or removed or dismissed, or substantially transferred or reverted
to another service or discharged otherwise than for want of a vacancy in a
municipal corporation. He may be a probationer or an approved probationer of
that service :(13)"Military duty" means the duty of any kind defined in Part I
"Preliminary" of the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Service
Rules.(14)"Probationer in the service" means a member of the service who has
not completed his probation;(15)"Promotion" means the appointment of a member
of any class or category or to a higher class or category of the service
;(16)A person is said to be a "recruited direct" when he is not already a
member of the Corporation service to which the direct recruitment is
made;(17)"Reversion" means the reversion of a member of a class or category of
the service to lower class or category of the service tor want of
vacancy;(18)"Scheduled Castes" means the communities classified as such in the
General Rules for the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services;(19)"Scheduled
Tribes" means the communities classified as such in the General Rules for the
Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services;(20)"Service" means any one of the
Corporation Services in Part HI of these rules;(21)"Special Rules" means the
Rules in Part III applicable to each service;(22)"Transfer" means the posting
of a person holding one post to another post having identical scale of pay in
the same service or from one service to another service in the same
Corporation in accordance with the provisions contained in the Special
Rules;(23)"War Service" means the service of any kind defined in Part I
"Preliminary" of the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Service Rules.

## Part II

General Rules

### 1\. Scope of the General Rules. - The rules in this Part shall apply to
all the posts referred to in the Special Rules contained in Part III of this
rule and to the holders of every post whether temporary or permanent of any
class or category of the service.

Explanation. - If any doubt arises as to whether these rules shall apply to
any person or not, in a particular class or category of the service, the
matter shall be referred to the Government whose decision shall be final.

### 2\. Relation to the special rules. - If any provision in the general rules
contained in this Part is repugnant to a provision in the special rules
applicable to the services contained in Part III, the latter shall, in respect
of that service, prevail over the provisions in the general rules in this
Part.

### 3. List of approved candidates. - A first appointment to any class or
category of any of the service stall be made by the appointing authority from
a list of approved candidates. Such list shall be prepared by the appointing
authority in the manner laid down in rule 4. Where the candidates, in such
list are arranged in their order of preference, appointments to the service
shall be made in such order.

### 4. Procedure for recruitment. - Vacancies for the posts to be filled up by
direct recruitment shall be notified to the local Employment Exchange, and
shall be filled up only from among the candidates sponsored by the Employment
Exchange. Only in case where the Employment Exchange intimates non-
availability of suitable qualified candidates, selection of candidates may be
made through advertisement in the local news papers.

Every candidate selected for appointment by the Appointment Committee
constituted under the Act shall possess the qualifications prescribed for the
respective posts and shall be physically found suitable on being sent for
medical examination.

### 5. Discharge or reversion and re-appointment of probationers and approved
probationers. - Probationers and approved probationers shall be reverted or
discharged for want of vacancy in the following order :-

(i)The probationers in the order of juniority, and(ii)The approved
probationers in the order of juniority.

### 6. Members absent from duty. - The absence of a member of the service from
duty whether on leave or foreign service or on deputation or for any other
reasons and whether his lien in a post borne in the cadre of the service is
suspended or not, shall not, if he is otherwise fit, render him ineligible in
his turn-

(a)for re-appointment to a vacancy in the class, category or post in which he
may be a probationer or any approved probationer;(b)for promotion from a lower
to a higher category in the service as the case may be in the same manner as
if he had not been absent. He shall be entitled to all the privileges in
respect of appointment, seniority, probation and appointment which he would
have enjoyed, but for his absence, subject to his completing satisfactorily
the period of probation on his return.

### 7. Temporary appointments and promotions. - (a) The appointing authority
may appoint any person temporarily for a period not exceeding six months or
promote any person temporarily for a period not exceeding 3 months in order to
fill up a vacancy which has arisen in any category or class of the service
immediately in the public interest and where there will be undue delay in
making an appointment in accordance with the rules.

(b)Where it is necessary to promote an Officer against whom an enquiry into
allegations of corruption or misconduct is pending, the appointing authority
may promote him temporarily pending enquiry into the charges against him.(c)A
person appointed or promoted temporarily under sub-rule (a) or sub-rule (b)
shall not be regarded as a probationer in such class or category of the
service. The services of such a person shall be liable to be terminated by the
appointing authority at any time without notice and without reasons being
assigned.(d)A person appointed or promoted temporarily under sub-rule (a) or
sub-rule (b) shall be paid his substantive pay, or the minimum of the time
scale of pay applicable to the post, whichever is higher.

### 8. Appointment on contract. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these
rules, wherever it is necessary in the interest of the administration or in
the public interest to appoint a person to any class or category of the
service otherwise than in accordance with the rules, the appointing authority
may, with the prior approval of the Government, appoint any person on contract
for a period not exceeding 3 years at a time. A person who is so appointed
shall not be regarded as a member of the service to which he is appointed.

### 9. Linguistic qualification. - No person shall be eligible for appointment
to any service by direct recruitment unless he has an adequate knowledge of
Tamil.

Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, a person shall be deemed to have
an adequate knowledge of Tamil if-(i)in the case of the post for which the
educational qualification prescribed is X Standard and above, he has studied
Tamil as one of the Language in the X Standard.(ii)in the case of a post for
which the educational qualification prescribed is below X Standard, he has
studied Tamil as one of the subject in the school;(iii)in the case of a post
for which no educational qualification is prescribed, the appointing authority
shall conduct an Oral Test whether the person is able to converse freely and
fluently in Tamil.

### 10. Age limit. - (1) No person shall be eligible for appointment
temporarily or permanently to any class or category in the service by direct
recruitment if he has completed or will complete 30 years of age on the first
day of July of the year in which the appointment is made. Provided that in the
case of a person belonging to any of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribes,
the age limit prescribed above shall be increased by five years.

(2)The age limit prescribed in sub-rule (1) shall be enhanced by five years to
the appointment of a candidate who possesses a degree from a recognised
University and who belongs to any of the Scheduled caste, Scheduled Tribes,
Backward Classes or Most Backward Classes to a post included in the service
for which the special rules prescribed a qualification lower than degree of
any University if the candidate possesses a degree.(3)A candidate who has
rendered war service is eligible to deduct from his age the period of his war
service for the purpose of computing his age for appointment.

### 11. Special qualifications to be acquired or special test to be passed. -
No person shall be eligible for appointment to any class or category unless
he-

(a)possesses such special qualifications and has passed such special tests, as
may be prescribed, in that behalf in the special rules, or(b)possesses such
other qualifications as may be considered to be equivalent to the said special
qualifications or special tests.

### 12. Appointment of women. - Women alone shall be appointed to posts in any
institution or establishment specially provided for them.

### 13. Reservation of appointments. - Where the special rules lay down that
appointment shall be made by direct recruitment also, the rule of reservation
of appointment, i.e., rule 22 of the General Rules of the Tamil Nadu State and
Subordinate Services shall apply to the class or category of the service and
the order of such reservation shall be the same as in the Schedule under rule
22 of the General Rules for the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services, as
amended, from time to time.

### 14. Probation. - (1) Every person shall, on his first appointment to any
class or category of the service, be on probation for a total period of two
years on duty within a continuous period of three years.

(2)Every person appointed to one class from another service shall, from the
date on which, the joint duty on probation for a total period of one year on
duty within a continuous period of two years.(3)If a person who is appointed
or promoted temporarily under rule 7 of these rules, is subsequently appointed
thereto in accordance with the rules, it shall be open to the appointing
authority to allow such person to commence his probation from the date of such
appointment on probation from the date of such appointment or promotion from
an earlier date such date not being earlier to the date of his first temporary
appointment or probation under rule 7 as the appointing authority may in his
discretion decides:Provided that this shall not be construed as authorising
the appointment or promotion on probation of a person from a date on which he
did not possess the qualifications prescribed for such appointment or
promotion.

### 15. Duty in higher post to count for probation in lower posts. - A
probationer in any class or category of the service shall be eligible to count
towards his probation his duty performed in a higher class or category I in
the same service and another service whether he is appointed regularly or
temporarily.

Nothing contained in this rule shall be construed as authorising the promotion
of a probationer in contravention of rules.

### 16. Duty on foreign service to count for probation. - A probationer in any
class or category of the service who is deputed to foreign service shall be
entitled to count towards his probation the period of duty performed by him in
the foreign service, during which he would have held that post in the
corporation service.

### 17. Completion of probation and drawal of arrears of increments. - Any
delay in passing orders of completion of probation shall not monetarily affect
the approved probationer and monetary benefits shall be allowed from the date
of completion of probation as a matter of course, subject to the following
conditions, namely:-

(1)that the probation would be declared to have been satisfactorily completed
from the date ordered even if the question of declaration of probation had
been taken up earlier;(2)that the declaration of satisfactory completion of
probation was delayed by factors which would not, in any case, change the date
of such completion;(3)that the person whose probation is declared to have been
satisfactorily completed was qualified as on the date ordered; and(4)that
declaration of satisfactory completion of probation was not the result of any
relaxation of rules.

### 18. Extension of probation. - If the appointing authority is of the
opinion that the probationer should continue to be on probation, or if the
probationer has not passed the test or tests, if any, which the probationer
should pass within the period of probation, he should be given time to enable
him to pass the tests, the appointing authority may extend his period of
probation for a period of not exceeding one year.

### 19. Termination of probation. - (1) If on the conclusion of the period of
probation or the extended period of probation as the case may be, the
appointing authority is satisfied that the probationer is not suitable for the
post, he shall pass an order terminating his probation after giving the
probationer reasonable opportunity for showing cause against the proposed
termination of probation.

(2)If on the conclusion of the period of probation, the probationer has not
passed the tests, if any, prescribed by the rules, the appointing authority
shall terminate his probation unless the probation is extended under rule 18
of the probationer does not pass the tests within the extended period of
probation, the appointing authority shall terminate his probation.

### 20. Automatic completion of probation. - A probationer in any class or
category of the service shall be deemed to have completed his probation
automatically, unless within a period of six months calculated from the date
on which he completed his period of probation or the extended period of
probation, as the case may be-

(i)a communication asking him to show cause why his probation should not be
terminated is served on him; or(ii)disciplinary proceedings are initiated
against him for corruption or other serious misconduct and he is specifically
informed in writing that the question of declaration of completion of his
probation will be taken up only after the conclusion of the disciplinary
proceedings.Nothing in this rules shall be construed as entitling a
probationer to automatic completion of probation if he has not passed the
tests which under the special rules he should pass within the period of his
probation.

### 21. Appeal against termination of probation. - A probationer whose
probation has been terminated for reasons other than failure to pass the
prescribed test shall be entitled to appeal to the next higher authority. Such
appeal should be preferred with in a period of three months from the date on
which the order of termination of probation is communicated to him.

### 22. Seniority. - The seniority of a person appointed to any class or
category of the service shall be determined with reference to his rank in the
list of approved candidates or promotion panel, as the case may be.

### 23. Promotion. - Every promotion or transfer to a class or category of the
service to which promotion or transfer shall be made from a panel prepared for
this purpose by the appointing authority in the manner laid down in rule 24.

### 24. Preparation of panel every year. - (1) The appointing authority shall
prepare every year a panel in respect of each class or group or category, as
the case may be, for which appointment is to be made by promotion or by
transfer. Such panels shall be valid for a period of one year only from the
date of approval. Each panel shall be prepared every year with the persons in
the feeder categories who are qualified as on the first day of April of the
year in which the panel is prepared.

(2)For arriving the number of persons to be included in the panel, he shall
assess the number of vacancies that would occur by superannuation of existing
incumbent, creation of new or additional posts within a period of one year
with a reserve of ten per cent of the total estimated vacancies under each
class or category of the service.(3)In respect of posts for which promotion
should be made by selection, the panel shall be prepared in the order of
preference based on their qualifications, merit and ability seniority being
taken into account only if the qualification, merit and ability are
approximately equal. In respect of posts for which promotions should be made
in accordance with seniority, the panel shall be prepared in accordance with
seniority unless-(i)the promotion of a member has been withhold as a penalty;
or(ii)the member does not possess the qualifications prescribed in the Special
Rules for the post.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rules (1) to
(3), a member of a service who had been on leave for a period of three years,
continuously for any reason except higher studies, shall not be considered for
appointment to higher category either by promotion or by recruitment by
transfer unless he has completed service for a period of one year from the
date on which he joins duty on return from leave.

### 25. Completion of probation and promotion. - A person who is appointed in
a class or category thereof shall not be promoted from the same class or
category until he has completed his probation, if any, prescribed for the
post.

### 26. Representation against suppression of claim for promotion. - Any
member of the service whose name has been overlooked for inclusion in a panel
shall have the right to make a representation to Government within three
months from the date of approval of the panel for redressal of his grievance.
The Government shall examine every such representation on its merits and pass
suitable order.

### 27. Annulment, modification or reversion of the panel for appointment or
promotion by Government. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules
or in the special rules, the State Government shall have the power to annul,
modify or reverse a panel for appointment or promotion to any category, class
or service prepared by the appointing authority.

### 28. Postings and transfers. - (a) A member in a class or a category of a
service may be required to serve in any post of equal cadre in the same or in
other services of the Corporation.

(b)All transfer and postings shall be made by the appointing authority.

### 29. Preparation of annual list of persons for transfer to other equivalent
posts in order to acquire experience in all branches of the Corporation. - For
the purpose of acquiring knowledge in the administration by a Corporation
employee in all categories of service, the Commissioner shall prepare a list
of qualified members to be considered for transfer to other categories or
posts in each group every year. From the lists so prepared, the Commissioner
shall transfer members in batches in a particular period, i.e., during April
to June of a year in accordance with the seniority in the list so prepared.
The Commissioner shall allow a member in a particular post at least for a
minimum period of two years.

### 30. Consequences of resignations. - (1) A member of the service shall if
he resigns his appointment forfeit not only the service rendered by him in the
particular post held by him at the time of resignation, but all his previous
services.

(2)The re-appointment of such person to any post in the service shall be
treated in the same way as first appointment of the service by direct
recruitment and the rules governing such appointment shall apply and on such
re-appointment he shall not be entitled to count any portion of his previous
service for any benefit or concession admissible under any rule or order.

### 31. Re-employment of pensioners. - Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in these rules or the special rules, the Government shall have the
power to re-employ in any class or category of the service any person who has
retired from the service. The re-employment of such person shall not be
regarded as a first appointment to the service, nor it shall confer on him the
status of a member of the service in which he is re-employed.

### 32. Relinquishment of right by members. - Any person may, in writing,
relinquish any right or privilege to which he may be entitled under these
rules or the special rules. The Government shall have the power to relax any
of these rules and the Special Rules in favour of any person or class of
persons serving in the service or any candidate or class of candidates for
appointment to the service in such manner as may appear to them to be just and
equitable.

### 33. Correction of date of birth. - The date of birth of a member of the
service shall be the date found on record in the S.S.L.C. in the case of
persons passed Tenth Standard and above or Military discharge school
certificate or true extract from the Birth Register which he produces at the
time of his appointment to the service if the case of persons studied below
Tenth Standard.

After a person has entered service, if it is found that his date of birth
entered in his Service Register is different from that entered in the S.S.L.C.
or Military Discharge Certificate, or in the Birth Register which may be due
to some clerical error or otherwise wrong entries, application for correction
of such clerical error or wrong entries shall be made to the appointing
authority. Such corrections in the Service Register shall be made straightaway
by the appointing authority. If the date of birth in the Service Register was
entered on the basis of the S.S.L.C. correction of clerical error or wrong
entries shall be made only with reference to the S.S.L.C. and if the date of
birth in the service Register was entered on the basis of the Military
Discharge Certificate or Birth Register correction of clerical error or wrong
entries shall be made only with reference to the Military Discharge
Certificate or Birth Register.

### 34. Pay and allowances. - The pay scales and allowances of the Corporation
establishment shall be fixed by the Government, from time to time.

### 35. Holidays. - (a) The offices and institutions under the control of the
Corporation shall be permitted only such public and special local holidays as
may be sanctioned by the Government, from time to time, in respect of
Government Offices and institutions.

(b)No holiday other than those sanctioned to Government, Offices and
institutions shall be granted to offices and institutions under the control of
the Corporation without the previous sanction of the Government:Provided,
however, that the Commissioner is permitted to order closure of the
Corporation office for a day or part of a day only as a mark of respect
whenever any officer of the Corporation to the status of Head of Department of
Mayor or Deputy Mayor passes away.

### 36. Application of Government rules to the Corporations Employees. - In
matters of settlement of pension, regulation of pay and other allowances,
leave benefits claiming of travelling allowances and daily allowances and
other allowances and control of conduct of the Corporation employees, the
Tamil Nadu Pension Rules, the Fundamental Rules, the Tamil Nadu Travelling
allowance Rules, the Manual on Special Pay and Allowances, and the Tamil Nadu
Government Servants Conduct Rules shall apply to the Corporation employees as
nearly as possible, to the Government Servants of similar status and standing.
In matters in respect of which no provision has been made in these rules,
every member of the service shall as nearly as possible, be governed by the
provisions applicable to Government servants of similar status and standing.

### 37. Fixation of Cadre Strength of posts of Corporation by the Government.
- The permanent cadre of such services, class, category and grade shall be
determined by the State Government to each of the Corporations.

### 38. Unit for appointment, transfer, postings, etc. - For the purpose of
appointment, promotion, reversion, transfer, and discharge from service, each
Municipal Corporation shall be a separate unit.

### 39. Savings. - Nothing contained in this general rules shall adversely
affect any person who was a member of this service on the date of coming into
force of these rules.

Part-IIISpecial Rules Tamil Nadu Municipal Corporation General Service Rules,
1996

### 1\. Short title. - These rules may be called The Tamil Nadu Municipal
Corporation General Service Rules, 1996.

### 2\. Constitution. - The service shall consist of the following categories
of posts in Class I and Class II, namely:-

Class-I:  
---  
| Category 1 | Deputy Commissioner.  
| Category 2 | Assistant Commissioner (Ward Office).  
| Category 3 | Assistant Commissioner (Personnel).  
| Category 4 | Assistant Commissioner (Revenue).  
| Category 5 | Assistant Commissioner (Accounts).  
ClassII:  
| Category 1 | Secretary to Council.  
| Category 2 | Law Officer.  
| Category 3 | Administrative Officer.  
| Category 4 | Accounts Officer.  
| Category 5 | Public Relations Officer.  
  
### 3\. Appointment. - Appointment to the posts specified in column (1) of the
Table below shall be made by the methods specified in the corresponding
entries in column (2) thereof:-

Name of the Post | Method of Recruitment  
---|---  
(i) | (2)  
Deputy Commissioner |  (i) By promotion from among the holders of theposts of Categories 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Class-I except theExecutive Engineer appointed as Assistant Commissioner (WardOffices); and  
(ii) By deputation from the holders of the postof I.A.S. Cadre or District
Revenue Officer, Deputy Secretary toGovernment or Joint Director of Municipal
Administration.  
Assistant Commissioner (Ward Office) |  (i) By transfer from the holders of the posts ofAssistant Commissioner (Personnel), (Revenue), (Accounts).  
(ii) By transfer from the holders of the post ofExecutive Engineer of the
Corporation Engineering Service; and  
(iii) By deputation from the holders of the postof Municipal Commissioner.  
Assistant Commissioner (Personnel) |  By transfer from the holders of the posts ofAssistant Commissioner (Revenue), Assistant Commissioner(Accounts) and Assistant Commissioner (Ward Offices).  
Assistant Commissioner (Revenue) |  (i) By promotion from the holders of the postsin Class II; or  
(ii) By transfer from the holders of the postsof Assistant Commissioner
(Personnel), Assistant Commissioner(Accounts) and Assistant Commissioner (Ward
Offices).  
Assistant Commissioner (Accounts) |  (i) By promotion from the holders of the postsin Class-II; or  
(ii) By transfer from the holders of the postsof Assistant Commissioner
(Personnel), Assistant Commissioner(Revenue) and Assistant Commissioner (Ward
Offices);  
(iii) By deputation from the office of theDirectorate of Local Fund Accounts
or from the Director ofTreasury and Accounts.  
Secretary to Council |  (i) By promotion from the holders of the postsof Superintendent in the Corporation General SubordinateService; or  
(ii) By deputation from the holders of the postsof Municipal Commissioner or
Selection Grade Assistant SectionOfficer of Secretariat.  
Law Officer |  (i) By Promotion from the holder of the posts ofSuperintendent of the Corporation General Subordinate-service;or  
(ii) By transfer from the holder of the posts ofSecretary to Council; or  
(iii) By deputation from the holder of the postsof Law Officer in other
Municipal Corporation or of SelectionGrade Assistant Section Officer in
Secretariat.  
Administrative Officer |  (i) By transfer from the holder of the posts ofClass-II.  
Accounts Officer |  (i) By promotion from the holder of the posts ofSuperintendents in the Corporation General Subordinate Service;or  
(ii) By transfer from the holder of the posts inClass-II  
Public Relations Officer |  (i) By promotion from the holder of the posts ofSuperintendent of the Corporation General Subordinate Service;or  
(ii) By transfer from the holder of the posts inClass-II; or  
(iii) By deputation from the holder of the postsof Public Relation Officer
from other Corporation or from theAssistant Public Relations Officers in
Government Departments.  
  
### 4\. Qualification. - No person shall be appointed to the categories
specified in column (1) of the Table below by the method specified in column
(2), unless he possesses the academic and training qualifications specified in
the corresponding entries in column (3) thereof:

Name of the Post | Method of appointment | Qualification  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
Deputy Commissioner | By Promotion |  (a) Must have experience of not less than 5years of total service in the posts under categories 2,3,4 and5 of Class-I, and out of the service of five years, a minimum ofone year service in each of categories;  
(b) Must have atleast one year service beforehis age of superannuation.  
Assistant Commissioner (Ward Office) | By transfer |  (i) Must have worked not less than 4 years inall or both Categories of (3) and (4) in Class-II; and  
(ii) Must not have less than one year of servicebefore his age of
superannuation  
Assistant Commissioner (Personnel) | By promotion and transfer |  (i) Must have worked not less than 2 years asAdministrative Officer; and  
(ii) Must have atleast one year of servicebefore his age of superannuation.  
Assistant Commissioner (Revenue) | By Promotion |  (i) Must have served as Accounts Officer andAssistant Revenue Officer for a period of not less than twoyears in the post; and  
(ii) Must have atleast one year service beforehis age of superannuation.  
Assistant Commissioner (Accounts) | By promotion and transfer |  (i) Must have served as Accounts Officer for aperiod of not less than two years; and  
(ii) Must have atleast one year of servicebefore his age of superannuation.  
Secretary to Council | By promotion or deputation | Must have a degree in Law.  
Law Officer | By promotion | Must have a degree in Law or equivalent degree.  
By deputation |  Must be a Selection Grade Assistant SectionOfficer in the Departments of Secretariat; and must have adegree in Law or equivalent degree.  
Administrative Officer | By transfer |  Must have worked for a period of not less than 2years as Accounts Officer.  
Accounts Officer | By promotion and transfer |  Must have worked as Superintendent of theAccounts Branch and as Accountant for a period of not less thantwo years in each of the post.  
Public Relations Officer | By promotion or by transfer or by deputation | Must have passed the Diploma in Public Relation.  
  
### 5\. Method of appointment between Assistant Commissioners and Executive
Engineers to the post of Assistant Commissioner (Ward Offices). - Out of the
total number of posts of Assistant Commissioner (Ward Office) in a
Corporation, one post of Assistant Commissioner (Ward Office) shall be
provided to the Executive Engineer for appointment as Assistant Commissioner
(Ward Office) in order to qualify themselves for the post of City Engineer.
When no Executive Engineer is available for appointment as Assistant
Commissioner (Ward Office) in a particular year, the holders of the post of
Assistant Commissioner (Personnel), (Revenue) and (Accounts) by transfer or
any Municipal Commissioner on deputation may be considered for such vacancy.

### 6\. Promotions. - Promotions to all the categories in the rules shall be
made in accordance with seniority and appointment on deputation shall be made
only when no qualified persons are available in the Corporation Service.

### 7\. Tests and Training. - The holder of any post under these rules will
have to under go such training and pass such tests, as may be prescribed by
the Government in the form of order, from time to time.

### 8\. Savings. - Nothing, contained in these rules shall adversely affect
any person holding any of the posts referred to in these rules on the date of
coming into force of these rules.

