## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments Act, 1958

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments Act, 1958

## Act 13 of 1958

  * Published on 1 July 1958 
  * Commenced on 1 July 1958 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 July 1958.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments Act, 1958Act No. 13 of 1958Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu
Act XIII of 1958). - It has long been felt by this Government as well as by
the Government of India that the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act LXIII of
1948) is not the appropriate legislation to regulate the conditions of work in
hotels and similar establishments. In 1951, this Government suggested to the
Government of India that the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act LXIII of 1948),
might be amended to remove hotels and similar establishments from its purview
and that a separate central legislation might be undertaken to regulate the
conditions of work in hotels, etc. The Government of India were also consulted
whether the hotels which were covered by the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act
LXIII of 1948), might be removed from its purview and dealt with under the
Madras Shops and Establishments Act, 1947 (Madras Act XXXVI of 1947). The
Government of India stated that they had no objection to such a course.The
question of suitability of the Madras Shops and Establishments Act, 1947
(Madras Act XXXV of 1947), for application to hotels and other catering
establishments was discussed by the Commissioner of Labour in 1953 with some
hotel owners and labour leaders and it was agreed that separate legislation
was necessary. It is, therefore, proposed to enact a separate piece of
legislation to regulate the conditions of work in hotels and other catering
establishments. The Bill provides for the registration of catering
establishments on payment of fees. The Bill follows generally, the provisions
in the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act LXIII of 1948) in regard to the
Chapter on leave with wages. It has also been provided in the Bill that the
provisions of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (Central Act IV of 1936) and the
rules made thereunder should apply to the catering establishments.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Madras Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act. 1961
(Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1961). - Sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Madras
Catering Establishments Act, 1958 (Madras Act XIII of 1958) provides that
every employee shall be allowed in each calendar year a holiday of one whole
day on the 26th January and the 15th August and five holidays each of one
whole day for each festival as the Inspector may, in consultation with the
employer and employees, specify. The employee will be entitled to wages on the
above holidays. Sub-section (4) of section 11 of the Act prescribes that where
an employee works on any holiday allowed under the Act, he shall, at his
option, be entitled to wages at twice the ordinary rate of wages or to wages
at the ordinary rate of wages and to avail himself of a substituted holiday
with wages on any other day.2\. It is considered that provision should be made
in the Act to enable the employer to require an employee to work on a national
or a festival holiday provided he is given the option to avail of a
substituted holiday or to get wages at twice the ordinary rate of wages for
the holiday.3\. It is also considered that section 29 of the Act should be
amended to give effect to the recommendation of the Committee on Subordinate
Legislation regarding the placing of rules on the table of both Houses of the
Legislature.4\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975). - The Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments Act,
1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XIII of 1958), as it stands at present, applies to
restaurants and residential hotels. It is considered expedient to enlarge the
scope of the Act by bringing within its purview restaurants and canteens
attached to, or run or managed by, any society registered under any law for
the time being in force. It has also been decided to amplify the provisions
relating to registration of catering establishments and to liberalise the
provisions relating to daily and weekly hours of work and grant of leave. It
is also proposed to make provisions for the effective enforcement of the Act.
Opportunity has also been availed of to enhance the minimum age limit for
employment in catering establishments from fourteen years to sixteen years
based on the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation and to
provide for free supply of dress to employees.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve
the above objects. The provisions of the Bill are explained in the notes on
clauses appended to the Bill.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1979). -
Under sub-section (2) of section 19 of the Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments
Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XIII of 1958) read with rule 23(3) of the Tamil Nadu
Catering Establishments Rules, 1959, the procedure followed by the appellate
authority when hearing appeals preferred to it is a summary one. As the said
Act does not empower the appellate authority to summon witnesses or direct any
person to produce any document which may be relevant for the disposal of the
appeal, difficulties have been experienced by the appellate authority in
summoning witnesses and directing persons to produce documents. It has,
therefore, been decided to amend sub-section (2) of section 19 of the said Act
so as to cloth the appellate authority with the person to enforce attendance
of persons and to compel production of documents.2\. The Bill seeks to give
effect to the above decision.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 2000). -
Under the Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XIII of
1958) large number of cases are pending in the Courts quite for a long time.
This involves enormous delay in the dispensation of justice. This also hampers
further inspection and follow up action to enforce the provisions of the law
since the enforcement machinery has to constantly watch Court proceedings. At
present, there is no provision in the said Act providing for composition of
offences. By permitting to compound the offences, expeditious justice can be
rendered. This will also pave way for the effective enforcement of the
provisions of the Act. Further, by introducing this system, there are chances
for the employers to realise their omissions and commissions and correct
themselves in future. Hence, it is felt that introduction of compounding of
offences will be more effective and useful.2\. Therefore, the Government have
decided to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act XIII of 1958 so as to provide for
composition of offences punishable under sub-sections (1), (2-A) and (3) of
section 23 of the said Act.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Received the assent of the President on the 1st July 1958 and
published in the Fort St. Geroge Gazette, dated the 9th July 1958.An Act to
provide for the regulation of conditions of work in catering establishments
and for certain other purposes in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient to provide for the regulation of
conditions of work in catering establishments and for certain other purposes
in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.];Be it enacted in the Ninth
Year of the Republic of India as follows :-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Catering Establishments
Act, 1958.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)(a)It shall come into force on such [date] [Came
into force on the 8th April 1959 in the areas specified in clause (a) of sub-
section (3) of section 1.] as the State Government may, by notification,
appoint-(i)in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.];[(i-a) in the City of Madurai as defined in clause
(9) of section 2 of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 15 of 1971);] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.](ii)in all the
municipalities constituted under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] District
Municipalities Act, 1920 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act V of 1920), and under
the Travan-core District Municipalities Act, 1116 (Travancore Act XXIII of
1116); and(iii)[ in all areas within the jurisdiction of-(a)panchayats which
are classified or deemed to have been classified as town panchayats under the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 [Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958] [This item was
substituted for the original item (iii) by section 2(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975), the
words 'Tamil Nadu' having been earlier substituted for the word 'Madras'
occurring in original item (iii) by the Tamil Nadu Maptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] including town panchayats re-constituted under that Act;
and(b)townships constituted under section 4-A of the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), section 4 of the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 [Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958] [This Act was repealed
and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994).], the Mettur Township Act, 1940 [Tamil Nadu Act XI of 1940] [These Acts
were repealed by the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities (Amendment) Act 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1994).], the Courtalla m Township Act, 1954 [Tamil Nadu
Act XVI of 1954] [These Acts were repealed by the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities (Amendment) Act 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1994).] and the
Bhavanisagar Township Act, 1954 [Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1954] [These Acts were
repealed by the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities (Amendment) Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1994).].(c)The State Government may, by notification,
direct that this Act shall come into force in any other area on such date as
may be specified in such notification.]

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)[ "catering
establishment" means a restaurant or residential hotel and includes a
restaurant or canteen attached to, or run or managed by, any society
registered under any law for the time being in force but does not include a
restaurant or canteen attached to, or run or managed by, any educational
institution;] [This clause was substituted for the original claused) by
section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Catering Establishment (Amendment) Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu 29 of 1975).](2)"child" means a person who has not completed
[sixteen] [This word was substituted for the word 'fourteen' by section 3(2)
of the Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of 1975).] years of age;(3)"day" means a period of twenty-four hours
beginning at midnight:Provided that in the case of an employee whose hours of
work extend beyond midnight, day means the period of twenty-four hours
beginning, from the time when such employment commences;(4)[ "employee" means
a person wholly or principally employed directly or through any agency whether
for Wages or not in, or in connection, with the business of any catering
establishment, but does not include a member of the employer's family;] [These
clauses were substituted for the original clauses (4) and (5) by section 3(3)
of the Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of 1975).](5)[ "employer" means a person owning or having charge of
the, business of a catering establishment and includes any person who holds a
licence issued under the Madras City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil
Nadu Act IV of 1919), the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 15 of 1971), or the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920
(Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), or the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu
Act XXXV of 1958), authorising him to carry on the business of a catering
establishment, the manager, agent or other person acting in the general
management or control of a catering establishment;] [This Act was repealed and
re-enacted by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994).](6)"family" in relation to an employer means the husband or wife, son,
daughter, father, mother, brother or sister of such employer who lives with
him and is dependent on him;(7)"Inspector" means an Inspector appointed under
section 20 for the area;(8)"leave" means leave provided for in section
12;(9)"period of work" means the time during which an employee is at the
disposal of the employer;(10)"registration certificate" means a certificate
showing the registration of a catering establishment;(11)"residential hotel"
means any premises in which the business of providing dwelling accommodation
and supply of meals to any member of the public or a class of the public is
carried on;(12)"restaurant" means any premises in which is carried on the
business of the supply of refreshments or meals to the public or a class of
the public for consumption on the premises;(13)"spread over" means the period
between the commencement and the termination of the work of an employee on any
day;[(13-A) "wages" means the basic wages, dearness allowance, the cash
equivalent of the meals and tiffin supplied to the employees free of charge
and the value or any other amenity or of service or of any concessional supply
of food grains or other articles which can be computed in terms of money, but
does not include a bonus;] [Inserted by section 3(4) of the Tamil Nadu
Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of
1975).](14)"week" means the period of seven days beginning at midnight on
Saturday or on such other day as may be specified for a particular area or for
a particular class of catering establishments by the prescribed
authority;(15)"young person" means a person who has completed sixteen years of
age, but has not completed eighteen years of age.

### 3. Exemptions.

(1)The provisions of this Act, except section 21 and section 22 shall not
apply do any catering establishment in which only members of the employer's
family are employed.(2)The provisions of sections 7 to 11 shall not apply to
the persons occupying positions of management in catering
establishments.(3)The State Government may, by notification, exempt either
permanently or for any specified period, any catering establishment or class
of catering establishments or any person or class of persons to which or to
whom this Act applies, from all or any of its provisions, subject to such
conditions as the State Government deem fit.

### 3A. [ Catering establishments to be registered. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of 1975.]

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no place or premises shall, on and
after the date of expiry of the period specified in this behalf in sub-section
(1) of section 4, be used as a catering establishment without a registration
certificate and except in accordance with the terms and conditions specified
therein.]

### 4. [ Procedure for registration of catering establishments. [Sections 4
and 4-A were substituted Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.]

(1)Every employer shall make an application to the Inspector for the grant of
a registration certificate in such form together with such fees as may be
prescribed,-(a)in the case of a catering establishment existing on the date of
coming into force of this Act, within thirty days from such date; and(b)in the
case of any new catering establishment, within thirty days from the date of
commencement of work.(2)The Inspector shall, in deciding whether to grant or
refuse a registration certificate, have regard to the following matters,
namely :-(a)the suitability of the place or premises which is proposed to be
used as catering establishment;(b)the previous experience of the
employer;(c)the financial resources of the employer including technical
capacity to meet the demands arising out of the provisions of the law for the
time being in force relating to the welfare of labour;(d)whether the
application is made bona fide on behalf of the employer himself or benami on
behalf of any other person;(e)welfare of the labour in the locality and the
interest of the public generally; and(f)such other matters as may be
prescribed.(3)(a)Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, the
Inspector may grant a registration certificate in the form prescribed on such
terms and conditions as may be prescribed and where the Inspector refuses to
grant a registration certificate, he shall do so by an order communicated to
the employer, giving the reasons in writing for such refusal.(b)The Inspector
shall, before granting a registration certificate, register the catering
establishment in the register of catering establishments maintained for the
purpose.(c)The registration certificate shall be prominently displayed at the
catering establishment.(4)A registration certificate shall be valid for a year
and shall be renewable yearly on payment of such fees as may be prescribed and
the foregoing provisions of this section shall apply to the renewal of a
registration certificate as they apply to the grant thereof.(5)The Inspector
may, after giving the employer an opportunity of being heard, by order revoke
or suspend any registration certificate granted or renewed under this Act, if
it appears to him that such registration certificate has been obtained by
misrepresentation or fraud or that the employer has failed to comply with, or
contravened, any of the provisions of this Act or the rule made thereunder or
any of the terms and conditions of the registration certificate.(6)The
acceptance by the Inspector of the pre-payment of the fees shall not entitle
the employer making such pre-payment to the grant or renewal of a registration
certificate, but only to the refund of the fees in case of refusal to grant or
renew a registration certificate.(7)An employer who has applied for the grant
or renewal of a registration certificate shall, until communication of orders
on his application, be entitled to act as if the registration certificate had
been granted or renewed.(8)If orders on an application for the grant or
renewal of a registration certificate are not communicated to the employer
within three months after the date of receipt of the application by the
Inspector, the registration certificate shall be deemed to have been granted
or renewed subject to the conditions ordinarily imposed under this Act or the
rules made thereunder.

### 4A. Appeal.

\- Any employer aggrieved by an order of the Inspector refusing to grant or
renew a registration certificate or revoking or suspending a registration
Certificate may, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of
the order sought to be appealed against and on payment of such fees as may be
prescribed, appeal in writing to such authority as the State Government may,
by notification specify in this behalf, and such authority may, by order,
confirm, modify or reverse the order appealed against:Provided that such
authority may, in its discretion, allow further time not exceeding thirty days
for filing of any such appeal, if it is satisfied that the employer had
sufficient cause for not filing the appeal in time.]

### 5. Change to be communicated to Inspector.

\- It shall be the duty of an employer to notify to the Inspector, in the
prescribed form, any change in respect of any information contained in his
[application] [Substituted for 'statement' by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.]
under section 4 within seven days after the change has taken place. The
Inspector shall, on receiving such notice and on being satisfied about its
correctness, make the change in the register of catering establishments in
accordance with such notice and shall amend the registration certificate or
issue a fresh registration certificate, if necessary, [on application being
made by the employer in such form together with such fees as may be
prescribed.] [These words were added by section 6(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975).]

### 6. Removal of catering establishments from the register.

\- An employer closing a catering establishment shall, within ten days of his
doing so, notify to the Inspector in writing of such closure. The Inspector
shall, on receiving such notice and on being satisfied about its correctness,
remove such catering establishment from the register of catering
establishments and cancel the registration certificate.

### 7. Daily and weekly hours of work in catering establishments.

(1)No young person shall be required or allowed to work in any catering
establishment for more than five hours in any day.(2)No other employee shall
be required or allowed to work in any catering establishment for more than
nine hours in any day or for more than forty-eight hours in any week :Provided
that subject to the payment of overtime wages, the total number of hours of
work including overtime shall not exceed ten hours in any day and the total
number of hours of overtime work shall not exceed [fifty-four hours]
[Substituted for the words 'fifty hours' by section 7(1) of the Tamil Nadu
Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975).] in
any quarter.[Explanation I. [These Explanations were added by section 7(2) of
the Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1975).] \- For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression
"quarter" means a period of three consecutive months beginning on the 1st
January, 1st April, 1st July or 1st October of every year.][Explanation II.
[Substituted for 'entitled to wages at ttoice the ordinary rate of wages' by
Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.] \- Where an employee is employed on a date other
than the 1st January, 1st April, 1st July or 1st October, the number of hours
of overtime work in any quarter shall not exceed the number which bears to
fifty-tour the same proportion as the number of days during which the employee
was employed in that quarter bears to the total number of days in the same
quarter.][Explanation III. [The Explanation to section 8 was omitted by Tamil
Nadu Act 29 of 1975.] \- In calculating the number of hours of overtime work,
any overtime work of half an hour or more shall be treated as one full hour's
overtime work and any fraction of less than half an hour shall be omitted.]

### 8. Extra wages for overtime work.

\- Where an employee works in any catering establishment for more than nine
hours in any day or for more than forty-eight hours in any week, he shall, in
respect of such overtime work, be [entitled to twice the wages] [Substituted
for 'entitled to wages at twice the ordinary rate of wages' by Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1975.].[* * *] [The Explanation to section 8 was omitted by Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of 1975.]

### 9. Interval for rest.

\- The period of work of an employee each day shall be so fixed that he shall
not have to work continuously for more than five hours before he has had an
interval for rest, of at least half an hour.

### 10. Spread over.

\- The periods of work of an employee shall be so arranged that along with his
intervals for rest they shall not spread over more than fourteen hours in any
day:Provided that the number of intervals for rest for an employee in any day
shall not exceed two.

### 11. Holidays.

(1)Every employee shall be allowed in each week a holiday of one whole
day.(2)Every employee shall be allowed in each calendar year a holiday of one
whole day [on the 26th January, the 1st May, the 15th August and the 2nd
October] [Substituted for 'the 26th January and the 15th August' by Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of 1975.] and five holidays each of one whole day for such festivals as
the Inspector may, in consultation with the employer and the employees,
specify in respect of any catering establishment.(3)(a)Notwithstanding any
contract to the contrary, no deduction shall be made from the wages of any
employee on account of any holiday allowed to him under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2).(b)Every employee shall be paid wages [* * *] [The expression
'at the ordinary rates of wages as defined in the Explanation to section 8'
was omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.] for each of the holidays allowed to
him under sub-section (2).(4)[ (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (2), any employee may be required by the employer to work on any
holiday allowed under that subsection, if the employer has not less than
twenty-four hours before such holiday,-] [Substituted for Tamil Nadu Act 42 of
1961.](i)served in the prescribed manner on the employee a notice in writing
requiring him to work as aforesaid; and(ii)sent to the Inspector and exhibited
in the premises of the catering establishment a copy of such notice.(b)[ Where
an employee works on any holiday allowed under sub-section (2), he shall, at
his option, be entitled to- [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of
1975.](i)twice the wages for such day, or(ii)wages for such day and to avail
himself of a substituted holiday with wages on one of the three days
immediately before or after the day on which he so works.]

### 11A. [ Notice of periods of work. [Inserted by section 10 of the Tamil
Nadu Act 29 of 1975.]

(1)There shall be correctly maintained and displayed in every catering
establishment a notice of periods of work in such form and in such manner as
may be prescribed showing clearly for everyday the periods during which
employees may be required to work.(2)No employee shall be allowed or required
to work in any catering establishment otherwise than in accordance with the
notice of periods of work displayed under sub-section (1).(3)Every employer
shall send to the Inspector and display in the catering establishment, a
statement showing the holidays allowed, in each calendar year under section
11, in such form, within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed.]

### 12. Leave with wages.

(1)Every employee who has worked for a period of not less than 240 days in a
catering establishment during a calendar year shall be allowed in the
subsequent calendar year, leave with wages for a number of days
calculated-(i)in the case of an adult, at the rate of one day for every 20
days of work performed by him during the previous calendar year;(ii)in the
case of a young person, at the rate of one day for every 15 days of work
performed by him during the previous calendar year.Explanation 1. - The leave
admissible under this sub-section shall be exclusive of all holidays whether
occurring during or at the beginning or at the end of the period of
leave.Explanation 2. - For the purpose of this sub-section-(a)any days of lay-
off, by agreement or contract or as permitted under the standing orders of the
catering establishment concerned;(b)in the case of a female employee,
authorised absence for maternity purposes for any number of days not exceeding
twelve weeks; and(c)the leave earned in the year prior to that in which the
leave is enjoyed;shall be deemed to be days on which the employee has worked
for the purpose of computation of the period of 240 days, but not for earning
leave.[(1-A) Every employee shall also be allowed in each calendar year leave
with wages for a period not exceeding twelve days at the rate of one day for
every month on the ground of any sickness incurred or accident sustained by
him.] [Inserted by section 11(1) of the Tamil Nadu Catering Establishments
(Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975).](2)An employee whose
service commences otherwise than on the first day of January shall be entitled
to leave calculated in accordance with sub-section (1), if he has worked for
two-thirds of the total number of days in the remainder of the calendar
year.(3)If an employee is discharged or dismissed from service during the
course of the year, he shall be entitled to leave with wages at the rate laid
down in subsection (1) even if he has not worked for the entire period
specified in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) entitling him to earn
leave.(4)In calculating leave under this section, any fraction of leave of
half a day or more shall be treated as one full day's leave and any fraction
of less than half a day shall be omitted.(5)If an employee does not in any
calendar year take the whole of the leave allowed to him under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2), as the case may be, any leave not taken by him shall be
added to the leave to be allowed to him in the succeeding calendar
year:Provided that the total number of days of leave that may be carried
forward to a succeeding year shall not exceed [forty in the case of an adult
or fifty] [Substituted for 'thirty in the case of an adult or forty' by Tamil
Nadu Act 29 of 1975.] in the case of a young person.(6)An application by an
employee for the whole or any portion of the leave allowed under sub-section
(1) or sub-section (2), shall be in writing and ordinarily be made reasonably
in advance of the date on which he wishes his leave to begin.(7)If the
employment of an employee who is entitled to leave under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2), as the case may be, is terminated by the employer before he
has taken the entire leave to which he is entitled or if having applied for
leave he has not been granted such leave or if the employee quits his
employment before he has taken the leave, the employer shall pay him the
amount payable under section 13 in respect of the leave not taken and such
payment shall be made, where the employment of the employee is terminated by
the employer, before the expiry of the second working day after such
termination and where the employee quits his employment, on or before the next
pay day.[(7-A) If an employee who is entitled to leave under sub-section (1-A)
is discharged by the employer when he is sick or suffering from the result of
an accident, or if the employee quits his employment during such period, the
employer shall pay him the amount payable under this Act in respect of the
period of leave to which he was entitled at the time of such discharge or
quitting in addition to the amount, if any, payable to him under sub-section
(7) and such payment shall be made, where the employee is discharged by the
employer, before the expiry of the second working day after such discharge and
where the employee quits his employment, on or before the next payday.]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.](8)The leave not availed of by an
employee shall not be taken into consideration in computing the period of any
notice required to be given before discharge or dismissal.

### 13. Wages during leave period.

\- For the leave allowed to him under section 12, an employee shall be paid at
a rate equal to the daily average of his total full time [wages] [Substituted
for 'earnings' by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.] for the days on which he worked
during the month immediately preceding his leave, exclusive of any overtime
wages [* * *] [The words 'and bonus but inclusive of dearness allowance and
the cash equivalent of the meals and tiffin supplied to the employee free of
charge' were omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.].

### 14. Payment in advance in certain cases.

\- An employee who has been granted leave for a period exceeding four days
shall, before his leave begins, be paid the wages due for the period of the
leave allowed.

### 14A. [ Dresses to be supplied by employer. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 29
of 1975.]

\- Every employer shall supply free of cost to the different classes of
employees in his catering establishment, such number and type of dresses, and
at such intervals, as may be prescribed.]

### 15. Mode of recovery of unpaid wages.

\- Any wages required to be paid by an employer, but not paid by him shall be
recoverable as delayed wages under the provisions of the Payment of Wages Act,
1936 (Central Act IV of 1936).

### 16. Application of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 to catering
establishments.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Payment of Wages Act, 1936
(Central Act IV of 1936) (hereinafter in this section referred to as the said
Act), the State Government may, by notification direct that, subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), the said Act or any of the provisions thereof
or the rules made thereunder shall apply to all or any class of employees in
catering establishments to which this Act applies.(2)On the application of the
provisions of the said Act to any catering establishment under sub-section
(1), the Inspector appointed under this Act shall be deemed to be the
Inspector for the purpose of the enforcement of the provisions of the said Act
within the local limits of his jurisdiction.(3)The State Government may, by
like notification, cancel or vary any notification issued under sub-section
(1).

### 17. Prohibition of employment of children.

\- No child shall be required or allowed to work in any catering
establishment.

### 18. Prohibition of employment of women or young persons during night.

\- No woman or young person shall be required or allowed to work whether as an
employee or otherwise in any catering establishment between the hours of 9
p.m. and 5 a.m.

### 19. Notice of discharge or dismissal.

(1)No employer shall dispense with the services of an employee employed [for a
period of not less than one hundred and twenty days during a period of six
months] [Substituted for 'continuously for a period of not less than six
months' by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.], except for a reasonable cause and
without giving such employee at least one month's notice or wages in lieu of
such notice, provided however that such notice shall not be necessary where
the services of such employee are dispensed with on a charge of misconduct
supported by satisfactory evidence recorded at an inquiry held for the
purpose.(2)(a)Any employee discharged, dismissed or retrenched may appeal to
such authority and within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed
either on the ground that there was no reasonable cause for dispensing with
his services or on the ground that he had not been guilty of misconduct as
held by the employer or on the ground that the employer did not retrench him
in good faith.(aa)[ The appellate authority may, if it considers that any
document or the testimony of any person is relevant or necessary for the
discharge of its duties under this Act as appellate authority, call for and
inspect such document or summon and examine such person. For the aforesaid
purposes, it shall have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court while
trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908),
in respect of the following matters, namely:- [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 29
of 1975.](i)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining
him on oath;(ii)compelling the production of documents;(iii)issuing
commissions for examination of witnesses.](b)The appellate authority may,
after giving notice in the prescribed manner to the employer and the employee,
dismiss the appeal or direct the reinstatement of the employee, with or
without wages for the period he was kept out of employment or direct payment
of compensation without reinstatement or grant such other relief as it deems
fit in the circumstances of the case.(3)The decision of the appellate
authority shall be final and binding on both the parties, not be liable to be
questioned in any Court of law and be given effect to within such time as may
be specified in the order of the appellate authority.

### 20. Appointment of Inspectors.

(1)The State Government may, by notification, appoint such persons or such
class of persons as they think fit to be Inspectors for the purposes of this
Act within such local limits as the State Government may specify.(2)Every
Inspector shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section
21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 21. Powers and duties of Inspectors.

\- Subject to any rules made by the State Government in this behalf, an
Inspector may, within the local limits for which he is appointed,-(a)enter, at
all reasonable times and with such assistance, if any, who are persons in the
service of the Government or of any local authority as he thinks fit to take
with him, any place which is, or which he has reason to believe, is a catering
establishment;(b)make such examination of the premises and of any prescribed
registers, records and notices and take on the spot or elsewhere the evidence
of such person as he may deem necessary, for carrying out the purposes of this
Act; [* * *] [Word 'and' omitted Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.](bb)[ seize or
take copies of such registers, records or notices or portions thereof as he
may consider necessary in respect of an offence under this Act which he has
reason to believe has been committed by an employer, and shall give the
employer a receipt for the same. The registers, records or notices or portions
thereof so seized shall be retained by the Inspector, only for so long as may
be necessary for their examination and for any inquiry or proceeding under
this Act:] [Inserted Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.]Provided-that such registers,
records or notices or portions thereof shall not be retained for more than
thirty days at a, time except with the permission of the next higher
authority; and(c)exercise such other powers as may be necessary for carrying
out the purposes of this Act:Provided that no one shall be required under this
section to answer any question or give any evidence tending to incriminate
himself.

### 22. Employer to produce registers, records, etc., for inspection.

\- Every employer shall, on demand, produce for inspection of an Inspector,
all registers, records and notices required to be kept under and for the
purposes of this Act.

### 23. Penalties.

\- [(1) Any employer who contravenes any of the provisions of sections 3-A, 4,
5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11,11-A, 12 and 14-A or fails to pay wages or compensation in
accordance with any order of the appellate authority passed under clause (b)
of sub-section (2) of section 19 shall, on conviction, be punishable [with
fine which, for a first offence, may extend to five thousand rupees and for a
second or subsequent offence, with fine which may extend to ten thousand
rupees] [Substituted for Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.] or more than two hundred
and fifty rupees and for a third or any subsequent offence shall not be less
than two hundred and fifty rupees or with imprisonment which may extend to
three months, or with both.](2)(a)Any employer who fails to reinstate an
employee in accordance with any order of the appellate authority passed under
clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 19 shall, on conviction, be
punishable [with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.] [Substituted
'with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees' by Act No. 9 of 2018, dated
25.1.2018.](b)Any employer, who after having been convicted under clause (a),
continues to fail to reinstate an employee in accordance with the order
mentioned in that clause shall, on conviction, be punishable for each day
after the previous date of conviction, during which he continues so to offend,
[with fine which may extend to two hundred and fifty rupees.] [Substituted
'with fine which may extend to twenty rupees' by Act No. 9 of 2018, dated
25.1.2018.](c)Any Court trying an offence punishable under this sub-section
may-direct that the whole or any part of the fine realised from the accused
shall be paid by way of compensation to the person who, in its opinion, has
been injured by such failure.[(2-A) Whoever fails to produce on demand by an
Inspector, any register, record or other document in his custody kept in
pursuance of this Act or of any rules made thereunder or conceals or prevents
any employee in a catering establishment from appearing before or being
examined by an Inspector shall, on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three months or [with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees.] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.] or with
both.](3)Whoever contravenes any other provisions of this Act or any of the
rules made under this Act shall, on conviction, be punishable [with fine which
may extend to five hundred rupees.] [Substituted 'with fine which may extend
to fifty rupees' by Act No. 9 of 2018, dated 25.1.2018.](4)[Any amount]
[Substituted for 'Any compensation' by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.] required to
be paid by an employer under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 19, but
not paid by him shall be recoverable as delayed wages under the provisions of
the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (Central Act IV of 1936).(5)[ Whenever an
employer is convicted for contravention of section 3-A, the Court shall, in
addition to any fine which may be imposed for such contravention, recover
summarily and pay over to the Inspector the amount of the fee chargeable for
the grant, or renewal of the registration certificate, as the case may be, and
may, in its discretion, also recover summarily and pay over to the Inspector
such amount, if any, as it may fix as the costs of the prosecution.] [Added by
Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.](6)[ (a) Where an employer is convicted of an
offence punishable under this Act, the Court may in addition to awarding any
punishment by order in writing require him within a period specified in the
order (which the Court may, if it thinks fit and on application in such behalf
from time to time extend) to take such measures as may be so specified for
remedying the matters in respect of which the offence was committed.(b)Where
an order is made under clause (a), the employer shall not be liable for
punishment under this Act in respect of the continuation of the offence during
the period or extended period, if any, allowed by the Court, but if on the
expiry of such period or extended period, as the case may be, the order of the
Court has not been fully complied with, the employer shall be deemed to have
committed a further offence and may be sentenced therefor by the Court to
undergo imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or to pay a
fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day after such expiry on which
the order has not been complied with or both to undergo such imprisonment and
to pay such fine as aforesaid.]

### 23A. [ Compounding of offences. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 2000,
w.e.f. 22.1.2001).]

(1)Any offence punishable under sub-sections (1), (2-A) and (3) of section 23
may, either before or after the institution of the prosecution, be compounded
by the Commissioner of Labour or such other officer as may be authorised in
this behalf by the Commissioner of Labour, on payment, for credit to the State
Government of such sum as the Commissioner of Labour or such other officer may
specify:Provided that such sum shall not, in any case, exceed the maximum
amount of fine which may be imposed under this Act for the offence so
compounded.(2)Sub-section (1) shall apply for the first and any subsequent
offence.(3)Where an offence has been compounded under sub-section (1), no
proceeding or further proceeding, as the case may be, shall be taken against
the offender, in respect of the offence so compounded and the offender, if in
custody, shall be discharged forthwith.(4)No offence punishable under this Act
shall be compounded except as provided by this section.] [Added by Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of 1975.]

### 24. Procedure.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act or any rule
made thereunder except on a complaint made by, or with the previous sanction
in writing of, an Inspector.(2)No Court inferior to that of a Presidency
Magistrate or a Magistrate of the Second Class shall try any offence
punishable under this Act or any rule made thereunder.According to clauses (b)
and (c) of sub-section (3) of section 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), which came into force on the 1st April 1974, any
reference to a Magistrate of the second class shall be construed as a
reference to a Judicial Magistrate of the second class and any reference to a
Presidency Magistrate shall be construed as a reference to a Metropolitan
Magistrate.

### 25. Limitation of prosecution.

\- No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this Act or
any rule made thereunder unless the complaint is made within six months from
the date on which the, offence is alleged to have been committed or within six
months from the date of its coming to the knowledge of the Inspector,
whichever is later.

### 26. Onus as to age.

(1)When any question arises under this Act whether any person is under a
certain age or not, the burden shall be on the employer concerned to prove
that such person is not under such age.(2)A declaration by a Government
medical officer not below the rank of a Civil Assistant Surgeon that he has
personally examined a person employed and believes him to be under the age
stated in such declaration shall, for the purposes of this Act and the rules
made thereunder, be admissible as evidence of the age of that person.

### 27. Saving of certain rights and privileges.

(1)Nothing contained in this Act shall affect any rights or privileges which
an employee in any catering establishment is entitled to on the date this Act
comes into force, under any other law, contract, custom or usage applicable to
such catering establishment or any award, settlement or agreement binding on
the employer and the employee in such catering establishment, if such rights
or privileges are more favourable to him than those to which he would be
entitled under this Act.(2)If any question arises whether the rights or
privileges aforesaid are more favourable to an employee than those to which he
would be entitled under this Act or whether all or any of the provisions of
this Act apply to a catering establishment or to a person employed therein, it
shall be decided by the Commissioner of Labour and his decision thereon shall
be final and not be liable to be questioned in any Court of law.

### 28. Indemnity.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under
this Act.

### 29. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may [* * *] [Words 'by notification' omitted by Tamil
Nadu Act 42 of 1961.] make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular after without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for -(a)all matters
expressly required or allowed by this Act to be prescribed;(aa)[ the terms and
conditions subject to which a registration certificate may be granted or
renewed under this Act and the fees to be paid for the grant or renewal of
such registration certificate;] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1975.](b)the
registers and records to be maintained in a catering establishment for the
purposes of examination by Inspectors and of securing compliance with the
provisions of this Act;(c)the form of notices to be exhibited in the premises
of the catering establishment by the employer and the manner of exhibiting
such notices;(d)the manner in which the cash equivalent of the meals and
tiffin supplied to employees free of charge is to be computed;(e)matters
relating to the health of employees in, and the sanitation of, a catering
establishment.(3)[ (a) All rules made under this Act shall be published in the
[Tamil Nadu Government Gazette] [Substituted Tamil Nadu 42 of 1961.] and,
unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come
into force on the day on which they are so published.](b)All notifications
issued under this Act shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, come into force on the day on which they are
published.(4)Every rule made or notification issued under this Act shall, as
soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the table of [the
Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for 'both houses of the Legislature' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry of the
session in which it is so placed or the next session [the Legislative Assembly
agrees] [Substituted for the words 'both houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule
or notification or the Legislative Assembly agrees that the rule or
notification should not be made or issued, the rule or notification shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or notification.

### 30. Certain enactments not to apply to catering establishments.

\- On and from the date of the commencement of this Act, the Weekly Holidays
Act, 1942 (Central Act XVIII of 1942), the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act
LXIII of 1948), and the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Shops and
Establishments Act, 1947 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laivs (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXXVI of 1947), shall not apply
to catering establishments:Provided that anything done under the said
enactments which could have been done under this Act if it had been in force
at the relevant time shall be deemed to have been done under this Act.

