## Union of India - Act

## The Transfer Of Evacuee Deposits Act, 1954

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Transfer Of Evacuee Deposits Act, 1954

## Act 15 of 1954

  * Published on 26 March 1954 
  * Commenced on 26 March 1954 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 March 1954.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Transfer Of Evacuee Deposits Act, 1954ACT NO. 15 OF 1954

### 27.

/1378The question of transfer from Pakistan to India and vice versa of
deposits in the custody or control of civil or revenue Courts and of moveable
properties in the custody or control of courts of wards which apply to persons
who have migrated from one country to the other was first considered in June,
1950 by the Governments of India and Pakisthan and it was then agreed that
legal power should be taken to enable the transfer of such deposits or other
moveable properties. The question was further discussed when the
representatives of the two Governments in Karachi in July-August of last year.
It has now been agreed that such deposits and moveable properties should be
transferred to the other country under a law made for the purpose and the
Government of Pakisthan would take similar action on the other side. The law
is to provide foer enbloc transfers of such properties from what are called
"mass migration areas" where both the parties interested in the deposits
happen to be evacuees. In respect of other cases, where only one of the
parties happens to be an evacuee, the Custodian is vested with the power to
transfer any deposits and other properties from Pakisthan and for their
distribution to their rightful owners in this country. As the arrangements
between the two countries had to be given effect to on the 1st February, 1954,
an Ordinance had to be promulgated which is now being replaced by this Bill.
This law will apply only to those areas in which the Administration of Evacuee
Property Act, 1950, is now in operation.The Government of Pakistan has also
taken action to implement the agreement between the two countries by
promulgating the Transfer of Evacuee Deposits Ordinance, 1954 (1 of 1954)" -
Gazette of India, Extra, Pt. II, Section 2, page 103.[26th March, 1954]An Act
to provide, in pursuance of an agreement with Pakistan, for the transfer to
that country of certain deposits belonging to evacuees, the reception in India
of similar deposits belonging to displaced persons, and matters connected
therewith.WHEREAS an agreement has been arrived at with Pakistan for the
transfer to that country of certain deposits belonging to evacuees, the
reception in India of similar deposits belonging to displaced persons, and
matters connected therewith;BE it enacted by Parliament as follows:--

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Transfer of Evacuee Deposits Act, 1954.(2)It
extends to the whole of India, except [the territories which, immediately
before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in] [Inserted by the Adaptation
of Laws (No. 3) Order, 1956. ] the States of Assam, West Bengal, Tripura,
Manipur and Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force on
the 1st day of February, 1954.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"Custodian" means a
Custodian of Deposits appointed under section 3, and includes an Assistant
Custodian of Deposits;(b)"deposit" means--(i)any movable property in the
custody or under the control of any Civil or Revenue Court in respect of any
proceedings before it; or(ii)any movable property under the superintendence or
in the custody of a court of wards under any law for the time being in force,
whether such movable property is in the actual custody of the court of wards,
or in that of some other authority on its behalf; or(iii)any movable property
in the custody or under the control of a manager;and includes any securities,
insurance policies and negotiable instruments in the custody or under the
control of any such Civil or Revenue Court or under the superintendence or in
the custody of such court of wards or in the custody or under the control of
such manager.Explanation I.--"Securities" include shares, scrips, stocks,
bonds, debentures, debenture stocks or other marketable securities of a like
nature in or of any body corporate and also Government securities.Explanation
II.--Where any deposit in the custody or under the control of any Civil or
Revenue Court or under the superintendence or in the custody of a court of
wards or in the custody or under the control of the manager has vested in the
Custodian of Evacuee Property as evacuee property, such deposit shall, for the
purposes of this Act, be deemed to be in the custody or under the control of
such Civil or Revenue Court or under the superintendence or in the custody of
the court of wards or in the custody or under the control of the manager, as
the case may be;(c)"displaced person" means any person who, on account of the
setting up of the Dominions of India and Pakistan or on account of civil
disturbances or the fear of such disturbances in any area now forming part of
Pakistan, has, on or after the 1st day of March, 1947, left, or been displaced
from, his place of residence in such area and who has been subsequently
residing in India;(d)"evacuee" means any person who, on account of the setting
up of the Dominions of India and Pakistan or on account of civil disturbances
or the fear of such disturbances, has, on or after the 1st day of March, 1947,
left any place in the territories to which this Act extends and who is not
residing in any place forming part of Pakistan;(e)"manager" means the manager
of an encumbered estate appointed under any law for the time being in force
relating to encumbered estates;(f)"transferable deposit" means a deposit in
which an evacuee has any right or interest, to the extent of that right or
interest:(g)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.

### 3. Appointment of custodian and Assistant Custodians of Deposits.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint a Custodian of Deposits and as many Assistant Custodians of Deposits
as may be necessary for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed upon the
Custodian and Assistant Custodians by or under this Act.(2)Subject to the
provisions of this Act, the Custodian and Assistant Custodians of Deposits
shall discharge the duties imposed on them by or under this Act under the
general superintendence and control of the Central Government, and the Central
Government may, by general or special order, provide for the distribution of
work among them.(3)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Assistant
Custodians of Deposits shall discharge the duties imposed on them by or under
this Act under the general superintendence and control of the Custodian.

### 4. Transfer of deposits in mass migration area.

(1)Where a Civil or Revenue Court or a court of wards situated in a mass
migration area or the manager exercising jurisdiction in any such area is
satisfied--(a)in the case of a Civil or Revenue Court other than a Civil Court
exercising jurisdiction under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890 (8 of 1890) or
the manager, that all the parties interested in a deposit are Muslims;(b)in
the case of a Civil court exercising jurisdiction under the Guardians and
Words Act, 1890 (8 of 1890), that both the guardian and the minor interested
in a deposit are Muslims;(c)in the case of a court of wards having under its
superintendence or custody a deposit, that the ward is a Muslim;the Civil or
Revenue Court or the court of wards or the manager, as the case may be, shall,
as soon as may be after the commencement of this Act, transfer the deposit
along with the records relating thereto, to such authorized officer or
authority in Pakistan as the Central Government may, by general or special
order, specify in this behalf:Provided that where, in the opinion of any such
Civil or Revenue Court or the court of wards or the manager, any of the
persons interested in a deposit is not an evacuee, the deposit shall not be
transferred to Pakistan under this section.(2)Every Civil or Revenue Court and
every court of wards and the manager shall, as soon as may be, send to the
Custodian in such form as may be prescribed particulars of all deposits
transferred to Pakistan under sub-section (1).Explanation.--In this section,
the expression "mass migration area" means the territories [which immediately
before the 1st November, 1956, were] [Inserted by the Adaptation of Laws (No.
3) Order, 1956. ] comprised in the following States or areas, namely:-(i)the
State of Punjab;(ii)the State of Patiala and East Punjab States Union;(iii)the
State of Ajmer;(iv)the State of Delhi;(v)the State of Himachal Pradesh;(vi)the
districts of Alwar, Bharatpur and Bikaner in the State or Rajasthan, and the
districts of Saharanpur, Dehra Dun, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar in the State of
Uttar Pradesh.

### 5. Procedure for transfer of certain other deposits to Pakistan.

(1)Where either on a request received in this behalf from any such officer or
authority in Pakistan as may be specified in this behalf by the Central
Government by notification in the Official Gazette, or on any other
information available to him, the Custodian is of opinion that there is a
transferable deposit to which the provisions of section 4 do not apply, he may
send for the record relating thereto from any Court or other authority and
inspect the same.(2)If, after making any such inspection as is referred to in
sub-section (1) and after making such further inquiry into the matter as may
be prescribed, the Custodian is satisfied that the deposit is a transferable
deposit within the meaning of this Act, he may, by order, direct that the
deposit shall be transferred to such authorized officer or authority in
Pakistan as the Central Government may, by general or special order, specify
in this behalf, and any Court or other authority holding in its custody or
under its control any such deposit shall comply with the
direction.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, where in
respect of any deposit the extent of the right or interest of an evacuee in
such deposit is not easily ascertainable or, having regard to the nature of
the deposit, it is in the opinion of the Custodian not practicable to separate
the right or interest of the evacuee from the right or interest of other
persons in such deposit, the Custodian shall not transfer any part of the
deposit to Pakistan.

### 6. Transfer of records relating to transferable deposit.

(1)Where a transferable deposit is directed to be transferred to Pakistan
under the provisions of section 5, the Custodian may send the record relating
to the deposit, or, if it is expedient so to do, only a certified copy of such
part of the record as, in the opinion of the Custodian, is material to the
case to the Government of Pakistan or to such officer or authority to whom or
to which the deposit has been directed to be transferred.(2)If a certified
copy only is sent in pursuance of sub-section (1), the original record,
together with a copy of the order of the Custodian under section 5, shall be
returned to the Court or other authority from which it was obtained.

### 7. Power of Court or Custodian to convert deposits into money before
transmission to Pakistan.

Where the transfer to Pakistan of any article which is a transferable deposit
is prohibited under any law for the time being in force, it shall be lawful
for a Civil or a Revenue Court, or the court of wards or the manager or the
Custodian, as the case may be, to convert such article into money in such
manner as may be prescribed, and upon such conversion the provisions of this
Act shall apply to the proceeds thereof as they apply to a transferable
deposit.

### 8. Cesser of jurisdiction in respect of deposits transferred.

Upon the transfer of any transferable deposit under section 4 or in pursuance
of an order of the Custodian under section 5, all Courts and authorities in
India shall, save as otherwise provided in this Act. cease to have or exercise
any jurisdiction in relation to the deposit so transferred in so far as it
relates to the right or interest of any evacuee in the deposit.

### 9. Reception in India of deposits transferred from Pakistan.

(1)It shall be lawful for the Custodian to receive and hold in his custody any
deposit transferred by any such officer or authority in Pakistan as may be
specified by the Central Government by general or special order as being a
deposit belonging to any displaced person in India.(2)On receipt of any such
deposit as it referred to in sub-section (1), the Custodian shall cause notice
thereof to be given in such manner as may be prescribed to all persons who
may, in his opinion, be interested in the deposit, and after giving a
reasonable opportunity to such persons to be heard in the matter and after
inspecting any such record relating to the deposit as may be transferred from
Pakistan, dispose of the deposit in the manner following, that is to
say--(a)if there is only one claimant entitled to the deposit or if all the
claimants, where there are more than one, appear before the Custodian and
there is no dispute as to the distribution of the deposit, pay the deposit to
that claimant or, as the case may be, distribute the deposit among the
claimants in the manner agreed to by them;(b)if all the claimants do not
appear before the Custodian or if all such claimants appear but do not agree
as to the person or persons entitled to the deposit or to the manner of its
distribution among them, the Custodian shall forward the deposit and the
records relating thereto to the principal Civil court of original jurisdiction
within whose jurisdiction all, or the largest number of claimants, reside, or
where the claimants residing within the jurisdiction of two or more Courts are
equal in number, to the Court which, in the opinion of the Custodian, would
best serve the convenience of claimants.(3)The Court to which a deposit and
any record relating thereto are forwarded under sub-section (2) shall proceed
to deal with the matter as if the deposit had been made in compliance with an
order made by it in a proceeding before it and, after making such further
inquiry into the matter as it thinks fit, award the deposit to or distribute
it among the person or persons who in its opinion is or are entitled
thereto.(4)An appeal shall lie from every order passed by any Court under sub-
section (3) to the Court authorized to hear appeals from the decisions of such
Court if the amount or value of the subject matter of the claim made in the
appeal exceeds two thousand rupees.(5)The disposal of any deposit in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall discharge the Custodian
from any liability to any person in respect of the deposit.

### 10. Powers of custodian.

The Custodian shall have all the powers vested in a Civil Court under the Code
of civil Procedure, 1908, (5 of 1908) when trying a suit in respect of the
following matters, namely:-(a)discovery and inspection;(b)enforcing the
attendance of witnesses and requiring the deposit of their
expenses;(c)compelling the production of documents;(d)examining witnesses on
oath;(e)reception of evidence on affidavits;(f)issuing commissions for the
examination of witnesses; and may summon and examine suo motu any person whose
evidence appears to him to be material; and shall be deemed to be a Civil
Court within the meaning of section 480 and section 482 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898. (5 of 1898)Explanation.--For the purpose of
enforcing the attendance of witnesses, the local limits of the jurisdiction of
the Custodian shall be the limits for which he is appointed.

### 11. Jurisdiction or Civil Courts barred.

No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to question the legality of any action
taken or of any decision given by the Custodian in connection with the
transfer of any transferable deposit or with the disposal of any deposit
received from Pakistan as belonging to a displaced person.

### 12. Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government or any Custodian or any other person in respect of anything which
is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of
any rule or order made thereunder.

### 13. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
[rules] [ See Gazette of India, 1955, Extraordinary, Pt. II, Sec. S, p. 2003 ]
to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice
to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may--(a)define the terms
and conditions of service of the Custodian and Assistant Custodians and the
local limits of their respective jurisdictions and the distribution of work
among them or the transfer of work from one to another of the Custodian and
Assistant Custodians;(b)the manner in which deposits and records relating
thereto may be transferred to Pakistan;(c)prescribe the manner in which any
inquiry under this Act may be held;(d)the manner in which a transferable
deposit may be converted into money under section 7;(e)specify the persons to
whom and the manner in which notices of any proceedings under this Act shall
be given;(f)prescribe the manner in which certified copies of any record may
be prepared under this Act and the fees, if any, which may be levied in
respect of such certified copies;(g)prescribe the form in which any
application may be made to the Custodian under this Act.

### 14. Repeal of Ordinance 6 of 1954.

[Rep. by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1960 (58 of 1960), s. 2 and Sch. I.]

