## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention Of Disfigurement) Act, 1959

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention Of Disfigurement) Act, 1959

## Act 02 of 1959

  * Published in Gazette 02 on 1 January 1980 
  * Assented to on 1 January 1980 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1980 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1980.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention Of Disfigurement) Act, 1959[No. 2 of
1959]An Act to prevent disfigurement by objectionable or unauthorized
advertisements of places open to public view and to prevent pasting of posters
in such places and on Motor Vehicles in the State of Tamil Nadu.WHEREAS it is
expedient to prevent disfigurement by objectionable or unauthorized
advertisements of places open to public view and to prevent pasting of posters
in such places and on Motor Vehicles in the State of Tamil Nadu;BE it enacted
in the Tenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent:-

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of
Disfigurement) Act, 1959.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.

### 2. Definitions:-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Advertisement"
includes any effigy or any bill, notice, document, paper or other thing
containing any words, signs or visible representations;(aa)"motor vehicle"
means a motor vehicle as defined in clause (28) of section (2) of Motor
Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) and used for road transport
service by any State Transport Undertaking;(b)"objectionable advertisement"
means any advertisement which is likely to —(i)incite any person to commit
murder, sabotage or any offence involving violence ; or(ii)seduce any member
of any of the armed forces of the Union or of the police forces from his
allegiance or his duty, or prejudice the recruiting of persons to serve in any
such force or prejudice the discipline of any such force ; or(iii)incite any
section of the citizens of India to acts of violence against any other section
of the citizens of India ; or which—(iv)is deliberately intended to outrage
the religious feelings of any class of the citizens of India by insulting or
blaspheming or profaning the religion or the religious beliefs of that class ;
or(v)is grossly, indecent, or is scurrilous or obscene or intended for
blackmail or ;(vi)obstructs pedestrian traffic;Explanation. — An advertisement
shall not be deemed to be objectionable merely because words or signs or
visible representations are used—(1)Expressing disapprobation or criticism of
any law or of any-policy or administrative action of the Government with a
view to obtain its alteration or redress by lawful means;(2)criticising any
social or religious practices without malicious intention and with an honest
view to promote social or religious reform or social justice ;(c)"place open
to public view" includes any private place or building, monument, statue,
post, wall, fence, tree or other thing or contrivance visible to a person
being in, or passing along, any public place ;(d)"public place" means any
place (including a road, street or way, whether a thoroughfare or not and a
landing place) to which the public are granted access or have a right to
resort, or over which they have a right;(dd)"State Transport Undertaking"
means a State Transport Undertaking as defined in clause (42) of section (2)
of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988);(e)“Traffic
Committee” means a Traffic Committee constituted under section 3-B and having
jurisdiction.

### 3. Penalty for disfigurement by objectionable advertisements:-

Whoever affixes to, or inscribes or exhibits on, any place open to public view
any objectionable advertisement shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to one year or with fine which may
extend to five thousand rupees or with both.

### 3A. Penalty for disfigurement by certain categories of unauthorised
advertisements without permission:-

(1)Subject to the provisions of section 4A and without prejudice to the
provisions of section 4, whoever, without the previous permission of the
Traffic Committee, affixes to, or inscribes or exhibits on, any place open to
the public view any advertisement which-(a)obstructs the line of vision of any
person or the driver of any vehicle using any public place or endangers the
safety of such person, driver or vehicle;(b)distracts the attention of any
pedestrian or the driver of any vehicle using any public place, in such manner
as to cause real danger to such pedestrian or driver or vehicle; or(c)causes
glare to the driver of any vehicle using any public placeshall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one
year or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with
both.(2)Every Traffic Committee shall, in deciding whether to grant or refuse
to grant permission under sub-section (1), have regard to the following
matters, namely :-(a)The location of the proposed advertisement(b)The effect
of such advertisement on moving traffic; and(c)Such other matters as may be
prescribed.

### 3B. Constitution of Traffic Committee:-

(1)There shall be constituted a Traffic Committee for the City of Madras and
for each district.(2)Every Traffic Committee shall, -(a)In the City of Madras,
consist of the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) ;(b)In the districts,
consist of the Superintendent of Police, and five other non-official members
appointed by the State Government, of whom, two shall be women:Provided that
if there are more than one Superintendent of Police in a district, the senior
most among them shall be the member of the Traffic Committee.

### 3C. Appeal:-

(1)Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Traffic Committee in granting
or refusing to grant permission under section 3A may appeal –(a)in the city of
Madras, to the Commissioner of Police; and(b)elsewhere, to the Collector of
the district concerned.The decision of the appellate authority under sub-
section (1) shall be final.

### 4. Penalty for unauthorised disfigurement by advertisements:-

(1)Subject to the provisions of section 4A, whoever affixes to, or inscribes
or exhibits on, any place open to public view any advertisement without the
written consent of the owner or occupier or person in management of the
property in which such place is situated shall be punished with imprisonment
of either description for a term which may extend to three months or with fine
which may extend to two hundred rupees, or with both.(2)The court while
convicting the offender under sub-section (1) may, by order also, direct the
offender to pay by way of compensation to the owner or occupier or person in
management of the building or premises, of such amount not exceeding five
hundred rupees on the whole as may be reasonably incurred by him in erasing
and colour-washing the portions of the building or premises which have been
disfigured .by the act of the offender.

### 4A. Prohibition of pasting of posters fixing of thatty boards etc.:-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 3,3-A or 4 or any other
provision of this Act, or any other law for the time being in force, no person
shall in any local area,-(a)Affix to, or inscribe or exhibit on, any place
open to public view any poster or any effigy, or any bill notice, document,
paper or other thing containing any words, signs or visible representations;
or(b)Put up or fix any thatty board or board supported on, or attached to, any
post, pole, standard framework or other support wholly or in part upon or over
any land, building, wall or structure:Provided that nothing contained in
clause (a) shall apply to –(i)Any poster or advertisement relating to the
profession, trade or business carried on within the land or building, upon or
over which such poster or advertisement is affixed or inscribed or exhibited,
as the case may be(ii)Any poster or advertisement affixed or inscribed or
exhibited, as the case may be, on such places as may be specified by order by
the Commissioner of Police in the City of Madras, Madurai and Coimbatore and
the Collector of the district concerned in other local areas, subject to such
conditions as may be specified in such order ; or(iii)Any poster or
advertisement affixed or inscribed or exhibited, as the case may be, relating
to any sale or letting of such land or building or any effects therein or to
any sale or entertainment to be held upon or in the same:Provided further that
nothing contained in clause (b) shall apply to putting up or fixing any board
on any lamp post or tree belonging to the State Government or any local
authority in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed in this
behalf.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the
Commissioner of Police in the City of Madras, Madurai and Coimbatore and the
Collector of the District concerned in other local areas, may grant permission
to any person on any special occasion, to put up or fix any thatty board on
poles or standards in such places, subject to such conditions and for such
period as may be specified in such permission:Provided that the Commissioner
of Police or the Collector of the district concerned, as the case may be, may
refuse to grant permission if he considers that such display of thatty boards
may lead to traffic hazards.(3)Any person aggrieved by any decision of the
Commissioner of Police or as the case may be, the Collector of the district in
refusing to grant permission under sub-section (2) may appeal to the State
Government and the decision of the State Government, on such appeal shall be
final.Explanation I: For the purpose of this section, “local area” means the
area within the limits of-(i)The City of Madras as defined in the Madras City
Municipal Corporation Act,1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919), or(ii)The City of
Madurai as defined in the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 15 of 1971), or(iii)The City of Coimbatore as defined in the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981),
or(iv)Any other Municipal Corporation that may be constituted under any law
for the time being in force, or(v)Any municipality constituted under the Tamil
Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920)Explanation
II – For the purpose of this section “local authority” means the Municipal
Corporation of Madras, Madurai or Coimbatore or any other municipal
corporation that may be constituted under any law for the time being in force
or any municipality constituted under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities
Act, 1920 ( Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920).

### 4AA. Prohibition of pasting of posters and fixing of thatty boards etc. on
Motor Vehicles:-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, 3-A, 4 or 4-A, or any
other provision of this Act, or any law for the time being in force, no person
shall-(a)affix to, or inscribe or exhibit on, any motor vehicle, any poster or
any effigy, or any bill, notice, document, paper or other thing containing any
words, signs or visible representations; or(b)put up or fix any thatty board
or board supported on, or attached to, any post, pole, standard, framework or
other support wholly or in any part upon or over any motor vehicle:Provided
that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to any poster or
advertisement or thatty board of the State Government, on any motor
vehicle.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section(1), any officer
authorised by the Chairman of the State Transport Undertaking concerned, may
grant objection to any person to put up or fix any thatty board on any motor
vehicle, subject to such conditions and for such period as may be specified in
such permission:Provided that the officer so authorised may refuse to grant
permission, if he considers that such display of thatty boards may lead to
disfigurement or damage or deteriorate the effective use of the motor
vehicle.(3)Any person aggrieved by any decision of the officer referred to in
sub-section (2) in refusing to grant permission, may appeal to the State
Government and the decision of the State Government, on such appeal, shall be
final.(4)Whoever contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description, for a term which may extend
to one year, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with
both.(5)Any offence punishable under sub-section (4) may be tried in a summary
way and the provisions of section 262 to 265 (both inclusive) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974) shall, as far as may be,
apply to such trial.

### 4B. Penalty:-

Whoever contravenes the provisions of section 4A shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description, for a term which may extend to one year,
or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.

### 4C. Power to try offence summarily:-

Any offence punishable under section 4B may be tried in a summary way and the
provisions of section 262 to 265 (both inclusive) of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974) shall, as far as may be, apply to such
trial.

### 5. Punishment of abettors:-

Whoever in any manner whatsoever causes, procures, counsels, aids, abets or is
accessory to, the commission of any offence under section 3 or section 3-A or
section 4 (1) or section 4-A or section 4-AA shall be punished with the
punishment provided for the offence.

### 6. Burden of proof in certain cases:-

Where a person is prosecuted for committing an offence under section 3-A or
section 4(1) or section 4-A(1) (b) or section 4-AA(1)(b), the burden of
proving that he has the permission or the written consent, as the case may be,
shall be on him.

### 7. Offences by companies:-

(1)Where an offence has been committed by a company, every person who, at the
time when the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to,
the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the
company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, and shall be liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing contained
in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment
provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of
such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where
an offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved
that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any gross negligence on the part of any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, shall also be deemed to be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation.—For the purpose of this section —(a)'Company' means
any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals,
and(b)'director', in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 8. Offences under the Act to be cognizable:-

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act 2 of 1974), any offence punishable under this Act shall be deemed
to be a cognizable offence within the meaning of that Code.

### 9. Indemnity:-

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Government, any local authority or person for anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 10. Other laws not affected:-

The provisions of this Act are in addition to, and not in derogation of, the
provisions of any other law for the time being in force.

### 11. Power to make rules:-

(1)The State Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for—(a)The form of
application for permission;(b)the manner in which, and the period within
which, the application for permission has to be made ;(c)the fees to be paid
on every application for permission(3)All rules made under this Act shall be
published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed
to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on
which they are so published.(4)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon
as possible after it is made be placed on the table of both Houses of the
Legislature and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed
or the next session, both Houses agree in making any modification in any such
rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

