## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Abolition of Fosts of Part-Time Village Officers (Payment of
Amount) Rules, 1983

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Abolition of Fosts of Part-Time Village Officers (Payment of
Amount) Rules, 1983

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-ABOLITION-OF-FOSTS-OF-PART-TIME-VILLAGE-OFFICERS-
PAYMENT-OF-AMOUNT-RULES-1983 of 1983

  * Published on 21 April 1981 
  * Commenced on 21 April 1981 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 April 1981.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Abolition of Fosts of Part-Time Village Officers (Payment of
Amount) Rules, 1983Published vide Notifications No. G.O. Ms. No. 730, Revenue,
dated 21st April 1981 - No. SRO A-113/ 83In exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Abolition of Posts of Part-
time Village Officers Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 3 of 1981), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title and application.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Abolition of Posts of Part-time
Village Officers (Payment of Amount) Rules, 1983.(2)These rules shall apply to
every person who ceased to hold the post of part-time Village Officers by
reason of section 3 of the Act except those who have been selected for
appointment to the post of Village Administrative Officer.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Abolition of Posts of Part-time Village Officers Act, 1981 (Tamil
Nadu Act 3 of 1981);(b)"erstwhile Village Officer" means a person to whom
these rules apply;(c)"Form" means a Form appended to these rules;
and(d)"section" means a section of the Act.

### 3. Application to the competent authority for payment of amount.

(1)Every application for the amount payable under section 5 shall be made by
the erstwhile Village Officer, or in the event of the death of such officer
subsequent to 14th November 1980, by his legal heir or heirs, in Form A. It
shall be made in duplicate and sent to the competent authority within sixty
days from the date of the publication of these rules in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette:[Provided that the competent authority may, for just and
sufficient cause, condone any delay in this regard.] [Proviso was added by
G.O.Ms. 575, Revenue, dated 12-4-1985.](2)On receipt of the application under
sub-rule (1), the competent authority shall forward one copy of the
application to the Tahsildar concerned and obtain his report regarding the
correctness of the particulars furnished in the application. The Tahsildar
shall send his report to the competent authority within thirty days from the
date of receipt of the application from the competent authority. Where records
are not readily available to verify the correctness of the particulars
furnished in the application, the Tahsildar shall make a through search for
such records to make necessary enquires in his office or elsewhere and send
the report to the competent authority within sixty days from the date of
receipt of the application from the competent authority.

### 4. Determination of amount by competent authority.

(1)On receipt of the report from the Tahsildar, the competent authority shall
determine the amount payable under section 5 after taking into account the
total service put in by the erstwhile Village Officer. Out of the amount so
determined, the amount actually paid to the erstwhile Village Officer towards
honorarium for the period commencing on and from the 14th November 1980 and
ending with the 15th April 1982 shall be deducted.(2)The competent authority
shall, after arriving at the amount as specified under sub-rule (1), issue a
notice in Form B to the erstwhile Village Officer.(3)After considering the
representation, if any, of the erstwhile Village Officer, the competent
authority shall pass an order determining the amount in Form C.(4)In case
where the amount liable for deduction under sub-rule (1) exceeds the amount
determined under sub-section (2) of section 5, the excess amount shall not be
recovered.

### 5. Payment of amount.

\- Based on the order of the competent authority determining the amount
payable under section 5, the Tahsildar concerned shall, within the period
specified under sub-section (4) of section 5, pay the amount to the applicant
by demand draft.

### 6. Appeal to District Collector.

(1)Any person aggrieved by the order of the competent authority passed under
rule 4 determining the amount payable under section 5, may prefer an appeal to
the District Collector concerned enclosing a copy of the order appealed
against within thirty days from the date of receipt of the order of the
competent authority.(2)On receipt of the appeal under sub-rule (1), the
District Collector shall call for a report and connected records from the
competent authority and, after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard
to the appellant, pass an order on the appeal.Form A[See Rule 3(1)]Application
(In Duplicate) for Payment of Amount

### 1\. (a) Name of the applicant and his present/ permanent address.

(b)If the applicant is a legal heir, name of the erstwhile part-time Village
Officer.

### 2\. Designation of the part-time post held previously (Village Headman or
Additional Village Headman or Karnam or Additional Kamam/ Triune Officer) with
particulars of name of the village and taluk.

### 3\. Date from which the applicant/ erstwhile part-time Village Officer was
holding the post.

### 4\. Total service rendered in the post excluding the period on leave other
than casual leave or absent without authorisation or under suspension. (Year,
month and date to be correctly specified.)

### 5\. Total amount of monthly emoluments (including honorarium, Pancha-yat
Development Allowance and one-twelfth of the consolidated annual travelling
allowance) for the year ending 31st March 1980.

### 6\. Amount of half monthly total emoluments claimed as per the Act.

### 7. Amount of honorarium received for the period from 14th November 1980 to
15th April 1982.

### 8. Net amount claimed.

I hereby certify that the particulars furnished above are true to the best of
my knowledge. I request that the amount specified in column (8) may be
sanctioned and paid to me.Station:Date:Signature of ApplicantForm B[See Rule
4(2)]NoticePursuant to section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Abolition of Posts of Part-
time Village Officers Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 3 of 1981), it is proposed to
make payment of a sum of Rs........ as indicated below to Thiru .......,
erstwhile Village Headman/ Kamam/ Triune Officer of..........village.

1. |  Total service put in by the erstwhile VillageHeadman/ Karnam/ Triune Officer (in number of years and portionthereof). |  |   
---|---|---|---  
2. |  Monthly emoluments of the erstwhile VillageHeadman/ Kamam/ Triune Officer. | Rs. | P.  
| (i) Honorarium. | ................... |   
| (ii) Panchayat Development Allowance. | ................... |   
|  (iii) One-twelfth of the consolidated annual travellingallowance. | ................... |   
| Total | ................... |   
3. |  Amount due to the erstwhile Village Headman/Karnam/ Triune Officer. | ................... |   
4. |  Honorarium amount received by the erstwhileVillage Headman/ Karnam/ Triune Officer for the period from 14thNovember 1980 to 15th April 1982. |  |   
5. | Net amount payable. |  |   
  
(Rupees...........(in words).................................Please take
notice that the application for payment of amount has been posted for hearing
on.............(day) at...........A.M./ P.M. before the ..........(Competent
authority). You are required to appear before the .................(Competent
authority) on that date, time and place either in person or through your
authorised representative, with all documentary evidence in support of your
claim. If no appearance is made either by you or by your authorised
representative on your behalf, it will be presumed that you have no
representation to make and orders will be passed on the merits of the
case.Competent authorityToErstwhile Village Headman/ Kamam/ Triune
Officer.Address:(By registered post with acknowledgement due)Form C[See Rule
4(3)]Proceedings of the Competent Authority[Under section 5(3) of the Tamil
Nadu Abolition of Posts of Part-time Village Officers Act, 1981]R. Dis. No.
.......................... dated ......................Present :
......................Designation : ..............Subject: Village Officers,
........... District ....... Taluk ........ Village ........ Part-time Village
Officers - Post abolished by the Tamil Nadu Act 3 of 1981 \- Payment of amount
under section 5(3) of the Act - Reg.Reference: (1) Application, dated from
Thiru ............(2)Letter No. ........... Tahsildar ..............In his
application first cited, Thiru ...................... Son of Village Headman/
Kamam/ Triune Officer,. village, ......... Taluk has applied for payment of
Rupees ................under section 5(3) of the Tamil Nadu Abolition of Posts
of Part-time Village Officers Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 3 of 1981). From the
report of the Tahsildar second cited, it is seen that he is the person/ legal
heir to the person who has ceased to hold the post of part-time Village
Officers by reason of section 3 of the Act. The erstwhile part-time Village
Officer had actually put in.......years of service excluding the period of
leave, other than casual leave, absence without authorisation and under
suspension. Accordingly, the applicant/ erstwhile Village Officer is entitled
for payment of Rs........... (in words). The applicant/ erstwhile Village
Officer has actually received Rs....................... (in
words)..................................................................................................
towards honorarium for the period from 14th November 1980 to 15th April 1982
(both days inclusive). After deducting the amount actually received by him
towards honorarium, he is eligible for payment of
Rs................................................. (in words) in the
circumstances, under section 5(3) of the Tamil Nadu Abolition of the Posts of
Part-time Village Officers Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 3 of 1981).I hereby
sanction Rs............ (Rupees) to Thiru. ............. erstwhile Village
Headman/ Karnam/ Triune Officer of...........Village.The applicant is further
informed that if the amount sanctioned is afterwards found to be in excess of
that to which he is entitled under these rules, he will be called upon to
refund such excess.

### 2\. The expenditure will be debited to the following Head of Account:-

"253. A. District Administration - A.D. Other Establishment-I. Non-plan - AD.
Ryotwari Village Services - 26. Other charges -7. Payment of amount under the
Tamil Nadu Abolition of Posts of Part-time Village Officers (Payment of
Amount) Rules, 1983" (DP Code 253 AAB AD 2677).

### 3\. The Tahsildar, .................Taluk is directed to draw the amount
and send it to the applicant by Demand Draft within a month on proper
acknowledgment and file the receipt for payment.

Competent AuthorityToThiru .............Erstwhile Village Headman/ Kamam/
Triune Officer.Address:....................Copy to the Tahsildar concerned
taluk for claim and payment. Copy to the Sub-Treasury Officer concerned.Copy
to Bills.Special Rules for the Post of Village Administrative [Officer] [Ad
hoc Rules relating to the temporary post of Village Administrative Officer
were issued in G.O. Ms. No. 2600, Revenue, dated the 18th November 1980 under
section 12 of the. Act read with Article 309 of the Constitution.
Subsequently, in supersession of the above said Ad hoc Rules, Special Rules
(Permanent Rule-have been framed which form part of the Tamil Nadu Ministerial
Service Rules.](Extract from the Tamil Nadu Ministrial Service Rules)Rule 38
(b) (iii). - Appointment, training and conditions of service of directly
recruited Village Administrative Officer:-Notwithstanding anything contained
in the foregoing rules, the rules in Annexure-X shall govern the direct
recruitment of Village Administrative Officer.Annexure - X[Referred to in Rule
38(b)(iii)]Appointment, Training and conditions of service of directly
recruited Village Administrative Officers.

### 1\. Appointment to the service in the category of Village Administrative
officer in the Revenue Department shall be made by direct recruitment.

### 2\. The appointing authority for the post shall be the Revenue Divisional
Officer having jurisdiction over the concerned village.

Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, "Revenue Divisional Officer"
includes Personal Assistant (General) to the Collector of [Chennai]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996
(Tamil Nadu Act 128 of 1996).].

### 3\. The rule of reservation of appointments (General rule 22) shall apply
for appointment to the post by direct recruitment treating each district as a
separate unit.

### 4\. (a) No person shall be eligible for appointment to the post by direct
recruitment,-

(i)unless he has completed 21 years of age on the first day of July of the
year in which the selection for appointment is made; and(ii)if he has
completed or will complete 30 years of age on the first day of July of the
year in which the selection for appointment is made:Provided that in the case
of a person belonging to a Backward Class 2 'or a Scheduled Caste and
Scheduled Tribe, the upper age limit shall be 40 years:Provided further that
the above age limit shall not apply for appointment as Village Administrative
Officers by direct recruitment from among the Ex-Village Officers through
State Level Screening Committee or to the Ex-Village Officers who have already
been absorbed as Village Administrative Officers as per the decisions of High
Court, Madras.(b)No person shall be eligible for appointment to the post by
direct recruitment unless he possesses the minimum general educational
qualification prescribed in rule 12(a)(i) and Schedule I in Part II of the
Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services Rules.

### 5\. (a) Every person appointed to the post shall furnish a cash security
of Rs. 2,000 (Rupees two thousand only) within a period of one month from the
date on which he joins duty:

Provided that a person belonging to a Backward Class1 shall furnish a cash
security of Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one thousand only) within a period of one month
from the date on which he joins duty:

### 1\. Backward Class includes Most Backward Class and De-notified
Communities also.

Provided further that a person belonging to a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled
Tribe shall not furnish a cash security.(aa)The cash security shall be
deposited in the Post Office Savings Bank pledged to the Collector of the
District concerned:Provided that the pledge of the security deposit in the
Post Office Savings Bank account shall be released to him by the Collector in
the event of his resignation, retirement, transfer from the category of
Village Administrative Officer, dismissal or removal from service and to his
legal heirs, in the case of his death, after deducting the Government dues, if
any.(b)Failure to furnish such cash security as contemplated in the above sub-
rules shall render a person liable to be discharged from service.

### 6\. Every person appointed to the post by direct recruitment shall, from
the date on which he joins duty, be on probation for a total period of two
years on duty within a continuous period of three years.

### 7\. (a) Every person appointed to the post shall,-

(i)undergo training for a period of not less than one month in Survey at
Government cost and pass the test in Survey conducted by the Survey Department
of the Government of Tamil Nadu at the end of the training. If he fails to
pass the test in the first attempt, he shall undergo the training for the
second time by availing himself of leave without pay and allowances and pass
the test at the end of the training. If he fails to pass the test for the
second time also, he shall undergo the training for the third time by availing
himself of leave without pay and allowances and pass the test at the end of
the training. If he fails to pass the test in the third attempt also, he shall
be discharged from service forthwith;(ii)undergo training for a period of not
less than six weeks in Village Administration at Government cost after he
passes the test in Survey mentioned in clause (i) and pass the test in Village
Administration at the end of the training. If he fails to pass the test in the
first attempt, he hall undergo the training for the second and the third time
subject to the same conditions mentioned in clause (i). If he fails to pass
the test in the third attempt also, he shall be discharged from service
forthwith;(b)Every person appointed to the post shall undergo the training in
Survey and Village Administration for the period specified;(c)Every person
appointed to the post shall be paid the minimum of the time scale of pay for
the post and the eligible allowance including House Rent Allowance during the
period of training for the first attempt mentioned in clauses (i) and (ii) of
sub-rule (a). The period of training shall count for probation and
increment;(d)Every person appointed to the post shall execute a bond agreeing
to reimburse to the Government the pay and allowances drawn by him during the
period of training and the cost of such training if he is eventually
discharged for not passing the tests at the end of the training mentioned in
sub-rule (a). If he fails to reimburse the pay and allowances drawn by him
during the period of training and the cost of the training, such pay,
allowances and cost of the trainings shall be recovered as an arrear of land
revenue under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Revenue Recovery Act, 1864
(Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864).

### 8\. (a) Every person appointed to the post shall, within the period of
probation, pass the following special tests, namely:-

(i)Powers and duties of Village Administrative Officers;(ii)Village
sanitation; and(iii)Manual of Village Accounts.If such person fails to pass
the said tests within the period of probation, he shall be discharged from
service forthwith.

### 9. Every person appointed to the post shall be liable to be transferred
any place,-

(i)within the division by the Revenue Divisional Officer;(ii)within the
district by the District Collector; and(iii)on administrative reasons, outside
the district by the Commissioner of Revenue Administration.

### 10. Every person appointed to the post shall reside in the village under
his charge and shall continue to reside in the said village so long as he
holds the post.

