## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Christian Marriages Validation Act, 1952

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Christian Marriages Validation Act, 1952

## Act 12 of 1952

  * Published on 10 December 1952 
  * Commenced on 10 December 1952 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 December 1952.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Christian Marriages Validation Act, 1952Tamil Nadu Act 12 of
1952Received the assent of the President on the 10th December 1952 and first
published in the Fort St. George Gazette on the 17th December 1952.An Act to
validate certain marriages solemnized in the districts of Nellore and
Chingleput.Whereas the [State Government] [This expression was substituted for
the expression 'Government of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1970.] granted licences under section 9 of the Indian Christian
Marriage Act, 1872 (Central Act XV of 1872) to Sri Eragudla Devadoss of the
American Baptist Telugu Mission in the district of Nellore on the 27th day of
April 1936, and to the Rev. James Ponnurangam of the Church of Messiah in the
district of Chingleput on the 18th day of November 1941;And Whereas the [State
Government] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'Government of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.] revoked the licence
of the said Sri Eragudla Devadoss with effect on and from the 7th day of
September 1950 and the licence of the said Rev. James Ponnurangam with effect
on and from the 12th day of November 1946;And Whereas in ignorance of the
revocation of the licences aforesaid, the said Sri Eragudla Devadoss continued
to solemnize marriages and to grant certificates of marriage up to the 19th
day of October 1951, on which date a fresh licence was granted to him under
the said section 9; and the said Rev. James Ponnurangam solemnized a marriage
between Sri R. Devadoss and Srimathi M. Grace Pushpa on the 19th day of August
1949 and granted a certificate of marriage to them;And Whereas there is no
reason to doubt that the parties to the marriages referred to in the foregoing
paragraph believed in good faith that their marriages had been duly
solemnized, and the certificates thereof duly granted, by persons legally
entitled so to do;And Whereas it is necessary that the marriages aforesaid and
all certificates granted, and all other acts and things done, in respect of,
or in relation to, such marriages, should be validated; It is hereby enacted
as follows:

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substitute for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second amendment) Order, 1969.]
Christian Marriages Validation Act, 1952.

### 2. Validation of certain marriages solemnized by Sri Eragudla Devadoss and
the Rev. James Ponnurangam, after the revocation of their licences.

(1)The marriages solemnized by the said Sri Eragudla Devadoss on and from the
7th day of September 1950 and up to the 19th day of October 1951, and the
certificates granted, the register-books and extracts there from deposited,
and the other acts and things done, in respect of, or in relation to, those
marriages shall not be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the fact that
the licence granted to the said Sri Eragudla Devadoss on the 27th day of April
1936 had been revoked.(2)The marriage of Sri R. Devadoss and Srimathi M. Grace
Pushpa solemnized by the said Rev. James Ponnurangam on the 19th day of August
1949, and the certificate granted, the register book and extracts therefrom
deposited and the other acts and things done, in respect of, or in relation
to, that marriage, shall not be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the
fact that the licence granted to the said Rev. James Ponnurangam, on the 18th
day of November 1941 had been revoked.(3)Certificates of the marriages
validated by sub-sections (1) and (2) and the register books and extracts
therefrom referred to in those sub-sections, shall be received as evidence of
the marriages.

