## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund Act, 1999

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund Act, 1999

## Act 25 of 1999

  * Published on 17 June 1999 
  * Commenced on 17 June 1999 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 June 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund Act, 1999Tamil Nadu Act 25 of
1999Statement of Objects and Reasons. - Advocates' Clerks form integral part
of the office of Advocates. Having regard to the works they do and considering
the welfare of the Advocates' Clerks and, the family, the Government have
decided to constitute a Fund called the Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare
Fund to provide for the payment of retirement benefits to Advocates' Clerks in
the State of Tamil Nadu and to give monetary assistance to the dependants in
the event of death of an Advocates' Clerk and for conferring on them the
benefits connected therewith or incidental thereto.2\. The Bill seeks to give
effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 14th May 1999.Received the assent
of the Governor on the 17th June 1999 and published in Part IV - Section 2 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 17th June 1999.An
Act to provide for the constitution of a Welfare Fund for the benefit of
Advocates' Clerks in the State of Tamil Nadu and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of
the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fiftieth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund Act,
1999.(2)It shall come into force on such [date] [Came into force on the 28th
February 2000 vide Notification No. 11(2)/ HO/ 213(h)/ 2000 issued in C.O. M
No. 221, Home (Courts V), dated 28-2-2000.] as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Advocate" means a
person whose name has been entered in the roll of advocates prepared and
maintained by the Bar Council under section 17 of the Advocates Act, 1961
(Central Act 25 of 1961), and who is a member of a Bar Association or an
Advocates' Association;(b)"Advocates' Association" means an association of
advocates recognised and registered by the Bar Council under section 13 of the
Tamil Nadu Advocates' Welfare Fund Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 49 of
1987);(c)"Advocates' Clerk" means a clerk employed by an advocate and
recognised by such authority and in such manner as may be prescribed and who
is a member of an Advocates' Clerks Association;(d)"Advocates' Clerks
Association" means an association of Advocates' Clerks recognised and
registered under section 13;(e)"Bar Association" means an association of
advocates recognised and registered by the Bar Council under section 13 of the
Tamil Nadu Advocates' Welfare Fund Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 49 of
1987);(f)"Bar Council" means the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu constituted under
section 13 of the Advocates Act, 1961 (Central Act 25 of 1961);(g)"cessation
of employment" means removal of the name of an Advocates' Clerk from the State
roll maintained by the Committee on account of his retirement;(h)"Committee"
means the Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund Committee constituted
under section 4;(i)"dependant" means any of the following relatives of a
deceased member of the Fund, namely:-(i)a widow, a minor legitimate son, an
unmarried legitimate daughter or a widowed mother; and(ii)a son who has
attained the age of eighteen years or a married daughter who is wholly
dependant on the earnings of the member at the time of his death and is
infirm;(j)"Fund" means the Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund
constituted under section 3;(k)"Government" means the State
Government;(l)"member of the Fund" means an Advocates' Clerk admitted to the
benefits of the Fund and continuing to be a member thereof under the
provisions of the Act;(m)"notification" means a notification published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, and the word "notified" shall be construed
accordingly;(n)"retirement" means stoppage of employment as an Advocates'
Clerk for reasons other than joining service or for carrying on any other
gainful occupation, communicated to, and recorded in the manner
prescribed;(o)"stamp" means the Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund
Stamp printed and distributed under section 12;(p)"vakalath" means a
vakalatnama, memorandum of appearance or any other document by which an
Advocate or any other legal practitioner is empowered to appear and plead
before any Court, Tribunal or authority.

### 3. Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, constitute a Fund to be called the
Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund.(2)There shall be credited to the
Fund,-(a)all amounts collected byway of sale of stamps under section 12;(b)any
voluntary donation or contribution made to the Fund by the Bar Council, any
Bar Association, any other Association or Institution, any Advocate or any
other person;(c)any sum borrowed under section 10;(d)all sums received from
the Life Insurance Corporation of India on the death of a member of the Fund
under a Group Insurance Policy;(e)any profit or dividend received from the
Life Insurance Corporation of India in respect of policies of Group Insurance
of the members of the Fund;(f)any interest or dividend or other return on any
investment made of any part of the Fund; and(g)all sums collected trader
section 15.

### 4. Establishment of Welfare Fund Committee.

(1)The Government may, by notification, establish with effect on and from such
date as may be specified therein, a Committee to be called the Tamil Nadu
Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund Committee.(2)The Committee shall be a body
corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with power to acquire,
hold and dispose of property and shall, by the said name, sue and be
sued.(3)The Committee shall consist of,-(a)the Chairman of the Bar
Council;(b)the Secretary to Government in-charge of Law;(c)the Secretary to
Government in-charge of Home;(d)the Secretary to Government in-charge of
Finance;(e)the Registrar of High Court, Madras;(f)three members to be
nominated from among the Advocates' Clerks by such authority and in such
manner as may be prescribed of whom one shall be nominated by the Committee as
the Treasurer of the Fund;(g)the Secretary to be appointed by the Chairman in
accordance with such regulations as may be made by the Committee in respect of
the recruitment and conditions of service of such Secretary. He shall be paid
out of the Fund:Provided that the Secretary appointed under this clause shall
not have the right to vote at the meetings of the Committee.(4)The Chairman of
Bar Council shall be the ex officio Chairman of the Committee.(5)The Secretary
to Government in-charge of Law, the Secretary to Government in-charge of Home,
the Secretary to Government in-charge of Finance and the Registrar of High
Court, Madras shall be the ex-officio members of the Committee.(6)In case the
Secretary to Government in-charge of Law or the Secretary to Government in-
charge of Home or the Secretary to Government in-charge of Finance, is unable
to attend the meetings of the Committee for any reason, he may depute any
officer of his Department not lower in rank than that of Deputy Secretary to
Government to attend the meetings.(7)In case the Registrar of the High Court,
Madras is unable to attend the meetings of the Committee for any reason, he
may depute any officer not below the rank of Deputy Registrar to attend the
meetings.(8)A member nominated under clause (f) of sub-section (3) shall hold
office for a term of three years or until he ceases to be a member of
Advocates' Clerks Association whichever is earlier.

### 5. Disqualification and removal of nominated members of the Committee.

(1)A member nominated under clause (f) of sub-section (3) of section 4 shall
be disqualified to be a member of the Committee, and ceases to be such member,
if he,-(a)becomes of unsound mind; or(b)is adjudicated as insolvent; or(c)is
absent without leave of the Committee for more than three consecutive meetings
of the Committee:Provided that the member ceasing to hold office under this
clause may be restored by the Committee, if such member makes an application
for the condonation of the absence; or(d)is a defaulter to the Fund (in case
he is a member of the Fund) or has committed breach of trust; or(e)is
convicted by a criminal Court for an offence involving moral turpitude, unless
such conviction has been set aside.(2)The Government may remove any member who
is or has become disqualified under sub-section (1) from the membership of the
Committee:Provided that no order removing any member shall be passed unless
the member has been given an opportunity of being heard.

### 6. Resignation by nominated member of the Committee and filling up of
casual vacancies.

(1)Any member nominated under clause (f) of sub-section (3) of section 4 may
resign his office by giving three months' notice in writing to the Chairman of
the Committee and on such resignation being accepted by the said Chairman, he
shall be deemed to have vacated his office.(2)Any casual vacancy in the office
of a member referred to in sub-section (1) shall be filled up, as soon as may
be, and a member so nominated to such vacancy shall hold office for the
residue of the term of his predecessor.

### 7. Act of Committee not to be invalidated by defect, etc.

\- No act done or proceeding taken under this Act or the rules made thereunder
by the Committee shall be invalidated merely by reason of,-(a)any vacancy or
defect in the constitution of the Committee; or(b)any defect or irregularity
in the election of any person as a member thereof; or(c)any defect or
irregularity in such act or proceeding not affecting the merits of the case.

### 8. Vesting and application of Fund.

\- The Fund shall vest in and be held and applied by the Committee subject to
the provisions, and for the purposes, of this Act.

### 9. Functions of the Committee.

(1)It shall be the function of the Committee to administer the Fund.(2)In the
administration of the Fund, the Committee shall, subject to the provisions of
this Act and the rules made thereunder,-(a)hold the amounts and assets
belonging to the Fund;(b)receive applications for admission or re-admission to
the Fund, and dispose of such applications within ninety days from the date of
receipt thereof;(c)receive applications from the members of the Fund, their
nominees or legal representatives, as the case may be, for payment out of the
Fund, conduct such enquiry as it deems necessary, for the disposal of such
applications, and dispose of the applications within five months from the date
of receipt thereof;(d)record in the minutes book of the Committee its
decisions on the applications;(e)pay to the applicants amounts as the rates
specified in the Schedule;(f)maintain such accounts and books and send such
periodicals and annual reports to the Bar Council, as may be
prescribed;(g)communicate to the applicants under certificate of posting the
decisions of the Committee in respect of applications for admission or re-
admission to the Fund or claims to the benefit of the Fund;(h)do such other
acts as are, or may be, required to be done under this Act and the rules made
thereunder.

### 10. Borrowing and investment of Funds.

(1)The Committee may, with the prior approval of the Bar Council, borrow, from
time to time, any sum required for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)The Committee shall deposit all moneys and receipts forming part of the
Fund in any Scheduled Bank as defined in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
(Central Act II of 1934) or invest the same in loans to any Corporation owned
or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government or in loans
floated by the Central Government or the State Government or in any other
manner as the Bar Council may, from time to time, direct with the prior
approval of the Government.(3)All amounts due and payable under this Act and
all expenditure relating to the management and administration of the Fund
shall be paid out of the Fund.(4)The accounts of the Committee shall be
audited annually by a Chartered Accountant appointed by the Committee.(5)The
accounts, as certified by the auditor together with the audit report thereon,
shall be forwarded to the Bar Council by the Committee and the Bar Council may
issue such directions as it deems fit to the Committee in respect
thereof.(6)The Committee shall comply with the directions issued by the Bar
Council under sub-section (5).

### 11. Powers and duties of Secretary.

\- The Secretary of the Committee shall,-(a)be the Chief Executive Authority
of the Committee and responsible for carrying out its decisions;(b)represent
the Committee in all suits and proceedings for and against the
Committee;(c)authenticate by his signature all decisions and instructions of
the Committee;(d)operate the bank accounts of the Committee jointly with the
Treasurer;(e)convene meetings of the Committee and prepare its
minutes;(f)attend the meetings of the Committee with all tire necessary
records and information;(g)maintain such forms, registers and other records as
may be prescribed, from time to time, and do all correspondence relating to
the Committee;(h)prepare an annual statement of business transaction by the
Committee during each financial year; and(i)do such acts as may be directed by
the Committee.

### 12. Tamil Nadu Advocates Clerks Welfare Fund Stamp.

(1)There shall be printed or cause to be printed by the Bar Council in such
form and in such manner as may be prescribed by rules, stamp inscribed as "the
Tamil Nadu Advocates' Clerks Welfare Fund", each of the value of two
rupees.(2)Every vakalath or memorandum of appearance filed before any Court,
authority or Tribunal shall be affixed with a stamp as specified in sub-
section (1) in addition to the Court-fee stamps, if any, and stamp to be
affixed under any other Act and no vakalath or memorandum of appearance shall
be valid unless it is so stamped:Provided that this sub-section shall not
apply to any vakalath or memorandum of appearance filed on behalf of the
Central or State Government.(3)The person or authority receiving vakalath with
such stamp shall forthwith effect cancellation of the stamp by punching out
the same.(4)The custody of the stamps printed under this section shall be with
the Bar Council and the supply and sale of stamps shall be in sue h manner as
may be prescribed.

### 13. Recognition and registration of Advocates' Clerks Association.

(1)(a)All association of Advocates' Clerks functioning in any Court
headquarters may, before a date to be notified by the Committee in this
behalf,-(b)Any such Association of Advocates' Clerks constituted after the
commencement of this Act may apply to the Committee in such form and in such
manner as may be prescribed, for recognition and registration as an Advocates'
Clerks Association under this Act.(2)Every application for recognition and
registration shall be accompanied by the rules or bye-laws of the association,
names and addresses of the office bearers of the association and an up-to-date
list of the members of the association with name, address, age and the
ordinary place of employment of such member.(3)The Committee may, after such
enquiry as it deems necessary, recognise the association as an Advocates'
Clerks Association and issue a certificate of recognition and registration in
such form as may be prescribed.(4)The decision of the Committee regarding the
recognition and registration of an association shall be final.

### 14. Duties of Advocates' Clerks Association.

(1)Every Advocates' Clerks Association shall, on or before the 15th April of
every year, intimate to the Committee a list of its members as on the 31st
March of that year.(2)Every Advocates' Clerks Association shall intimate to
the Committee of-(a)any change of the office bearers of the Advocates' Clerks
Association within fifteen days from such change;(b)any change in number of
members including admission and re-admission within thirty days of such
change;(c)the death or retirement of any of its members within thirty days
from the date of occurrence thereof; and(d)such other matter as may be
required by the Committee, from time to time.

### 15. Membership of the Fund.

(1)Every Advocates' Clerk in the State may apply to the Committee, in such
form and in such manner as may be prescribed for admission as a member of the
Fund.(2)On receipt of an application under sub-section (1), the Committee
shall make such enquiry as it deems fit and either admit the applicant to the
Fund or for reasons to be recorded in writing reject the application:Provided
that no order rejecting an application shall be passed unless the applicant
has been given an opportunity of being heard.(3)Every applicant shall pay an
application fee of rupees fifty along with the application to the account of
the Committee.(4)Every applicant shall pay to the Fund an admission fee of
rupees fifty at the time of admission or re-admission.(5)Every person admitted
as a member of the Fund shall pay a membership fee of rupees one thousand. It
is payable in two equal half-yearly installment.(6)Every member of the Fund
shall, at the time of admission, make a nomination conferring on one or more
dependants the right to receive the amount from the Fund in the event of his
death.(7)If more than one person is nominated, the amount or share payable to
each nominee shall be specified in the nomination.(8)A member of the Fund may,
at any time, cancel a nomination by sending a notice in writing to the
Committee along with a fresh nomination.(9)Where, on receipt of a complaint or
otherwise, the Committee has reason to believe that any Advocates' Clerk
secured admission as a member of the Fund by mis-representation, fraud or
undue influence, it shall be competent for the Committee to remove the name of
such Advocates' Clerk from the membership of the Fund:Provided that no order
under this sub-section shall be passed unless the person-likely to be
adversely affected has been given an opportunity of being heard.

### 16. Payment from the Fund on cessation of employment.

(1)A member of the Fund shall, on cessation of employment, be entitled to
receive from and out of the Fund an amount at the rate specified in the
Schedule.(2)In the event of death of a member, a consolidated amount of rupees
fifty thousand be paid to the nominee or, where there is no nominee, to his
dependants.(3)A member of the Fund may withdraw his membership at any time
after five years of his admission as a member of the Fund and, on such
withdrawal, he shall be entitled to receive the amount from and out of the
Fund an amount at the rate specified in the Schedule. Such person shall be
eligible for re-admission to the Fund as a new member subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed:Provided that a member suffering from
permanent disablement may withdraw his membership within five years of his
admission to the Fund.(4)For calculating the period of completed years of
employment for the purpose of payment under this Act, every four years of
employment under an Advocate, if any, before the admission of a member to the
Fund shall be computed as one year of employment and added on to the number of
years of employment after such admission.(5)An application for payment from
the Fund shall be made to the Committee in such form as may be
prescribed.(6)An application received under sub-section (5) shall be disposed
of by the Committee after such enquiry as it deems necessary.

### 17. Restriction on alienation, attachment, etc., of interest of member in
the Fund.

(1)The interest or the right of a member of the Fund or his nominee or legal
heirs to receive any amount from the Fund, shall not be assigned, alienated or
charged and shall not be liable to attachment under any decree or order of any
Court, Tribunal or other authority.(2)No creditor shall be entitled to proceed
against the Fund or the interest therein of any member of the Fund or his
nominee or legal heirs.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section,
"creditor" includes the State, or an official assignee or official receiver
appointed under the law relating to insolvency for the time being in force.

### 18. Group Life Insurance for members and other benefits.

\- The Committee may, for the welfare of the members of the Fund,-(a)take from
the Life Insurance Corporation of India, policies of Group Insurance on the
life of the members of the Fund; and(b)provide for medical and educational
facilities, and such other benefits, as may be prescribed, for the members of
the Fund and their dependants.

### 19. Meetings of the Committee.

(1)The Committee shall meet at least once in three months or more often if
found necessary to transact its business.(2)Five members of the Committee
shall form the quorum for a meeting of the Committee.(3)The Chairman or in his
absence, a member elected by the members] present at the meeting shall preside
over a meeting of the Committee.(4)Any matter coming up before a meeting of
the Committee shall be decided by a majority of the members present and voting
at the meeting and, in the case of any equality of votes, the Chairman or the
member presiding over the meeting shall have and exercise a casting vote.

### 20. Traveling and daily allowance to members of Committee.

\- The nominated members of the Committee shall be eligible to get such
traveling allowance and daily allowance as may be prescribed.

### 21. Review.

\- The Committee may, suo motu at any time or on an application from any
interested person within ninety days of any order passed by it, review any
such order:Provided that the Committee shall not pass any order adversely
affecting any person unless such person has been given an opportunity of
making his representation.

### 22. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
or anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act or any rule made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding
shall lie against the Committee or the Bar Council for any damage caused or
likely to be caused by anything which is in good faith done or intended to be
done in pursuance of this Act or any rule made thereunder.

### 23. Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Courts.

\- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal with any
question or determine any matter which is by or under this Act required to be
settled, decided or dealt with or determined by the Committee.

### 24. Power to summon witnesses and take evidence.

\- The Committee shall, for the purposes of any enquiry under this Act, have
the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court while trying a suit under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), in respect of the
following matters, namely:-(a)enforcing the attendance of any person or
examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of
documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavit; and(d)issuing Commission for the
examination of witnesses.

### 25. Power to amend Schedule.

(1)The Government may, by notification, on the recommendation of the Committee
and having due regard to the availability of the amount in the Fund, amend the
rates specified in the Schedule.

### 26. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out the
purpose of this Act.(2)Every rule made or notification issued by the
Government under this Act, shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or
issued, be placed on the Table of the Legislative Assembly and if, before
expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the
Legislative Assembly makes any modification in any such rule or notification
or the Legislative Assembly decides that the rule or notification should not
be made or issued, the rule or notification shall, thereafter, have effect
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule or notification.The
Schedule[See Sections 9(2)(e), 16(1) and 25]

| Rs.  
---|---  
30 years as a member of the Fund. | 30,000  
29 years as a member of the Fund. | 29,000  
28 years as a member of the Fund. | 28,000  
27 years as a member of the Fund. | 27,000  
26 years as a member of the Fund. | 26,000  
25 years as a member of the Fund. | 25,000  
24 years as a member of the Fund. | 24,000  
23 years as a member of the Fund. | 23,000  
22 years as a member of the Fund. | 22,000  
21 years as a member of the Fund. | 21,000  
20 years as a member of the Fund. | 20,000  
19 years as a member of the Fund. | 19,000  
18 years as a member of the Fund. | 18,000  
17 years as a member of the Fund. | 17,000  
16 years as a member of the Fund. | 16,000  
15 years as a member of the Fund. | 15,000  
14 years as a member of the Fund. | 14,000  
13 years as a member of the Fund. | 13,000  
12 years as a member of the Fund. | 12,000  
11 years as a member of the Fund. | 11,000  
10 years as a member of the Fund. | 10,000  
9 years as a member of the Fund. | 9,000  
8 years as a member of the Fund. | 8,000  
7 years as a member of the Fund. | 7,000  
6 years as a member of the Fund. | 6,000  
5 years as a member of the Fund. | 5,000  
4 years as a member of the Fund. | 4,000  
3 years as a member of the Fund. | 3,000  
2 years as a member of the Fund. | 2,000  
1 year as a member of the Fund. | 1,000

