## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers (Social Security and Welfare)
Act, 2006

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers (Social Security and Welfare)
Act, 2006

## Act 29 of 2006

  * Published on 18 September 2006 
  * Commenced on 18 September 2006 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 September 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers (Social Security and Welfare)
Act, 2006Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 2006Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The
availability of work in agriculture is seasonal. A majority of manual
labourers (both men and women) of tire State are engaged as labourers in
agricultural sector. Due to non-availability of work throughout the year and
due to intermittent monsoon failures over the years, their living conditions
are not improved to the desired levels.2\. In order to assess the living
conditions of the agricultural labourers and to suggest measures for their
social upliftment, the Government in the year 1998 constituted a Committee
under the Chairmanship of Thiru P. Kolappan, I.A.S. The said Committee
submitted its report to the Government suggesting various welfare measures for
the upliftment of agricultural labourers. One of the recommendations is to
bring forth an exclusive Act as "Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers Welfare
Act" so as to implement effectively the various welfare measures for socio-
economic improvement of the agricultural labourers.3\. Considering the
recommendation of the Kolappan Committee, the Government constituted the
"Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers Welfare Board" under section 6 of the Tamil
Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Act,
1982, in the year 2000 and introduced the "Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers
Social Security and Welfare Scheme, 2001" for implementation by the said
Board. This Scheme provided for the creation of a Fund with contributions from
both employers and employees from which the assistance to the members of the
Scheme, for various requirements, such as marriage, education, delivery,
miscarriage, natural and accidental death, funeral, etc., was provided.4\. The
living conditions of not only the agricultural labourers, but also the farmers
who own small extent of land and engage themselves in direct cultivation are
found to be not better. Hence, the Government in 2001 included farmers who own
up to 1.00 acre of wet land or up to 2.50 acres of dry land, under the
definition of "agricultural labourers" and accordingly extended the benefits
to them under the Scheme.5\. This Scheme was, however, not implemented and the
successive Government superseded the Board and cancelled the Scheme in 2005.
Following this, a new Scheme, namely, "The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister's Farmers
Security Scheme" was introduced with effect from 15.8.2005. The implementation
of this Scheme was not with reference to any statutory provisions.6\. At the
time of his address to the thirteenth Legislative Assembly, His Excellency,
the Governor of Tamil Nadu announced, among other things, that-"The Welfare
Boards for the workers employed in the unorganised sector will be
rejuvenated"7\. Consequent to the above announcement, the Cabinet considered
the subject in its meeting held on 7.7.2006 and decided to revive the Tamil
Nadu Agricultural Labourers Welfare Board and to re-introduce and implement
the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers Social Security and Welfare Scheme.8\.
The Government further desire that the benefits under the Scheme lo be made
should also be extended to farmers who own upto 2.50 acres of wet land or 5.00
acres of dry land and registered "Cultivating Tenants" holding upto the same
extent and engaging themselves in direct cultivation, In undertaking
comprehensive legislation in this regard.9\. The Bill seeks to achieve the
above objects.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 27th July 2006.Received the assent of the
Governor on the 18th September, 2006 and published in Part IV- Section 2 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 20th September
2006.An Act to provide for comprehensive social security and for ensuring well
being of " landless agricultural labourers and farmers engaging themselves in
direct cultivation.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers
(Social Security and Welfare) Act, 2006.(2)It extends to the whole of the
State of Tamil Nadu except Chennai district.(3)It shall come into force on
such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"agriculture"
includes-(a)horticulture;(b)sericulture;(c)the raising of crops, grass or
garden produce;(d)the use by an agriculturist of land held by him or part
thereof for grazing;(e)the use of any land for the purpose of raising manure
crops;(f)dairy fanning;(g)poultry farming;(h)livestock breeding;(i)growing of
trees;and 'agricultural' shall be construed accordingly;(2)"agricultural
labourer" means -(i)any person in the age group of 18 to 65 years, engaged to
work in agricultural or allied agricultural operations for wages, but who does
not own any land;(3)"Board" means a Board established under section
5;(4)"dependent", in relation to an agricultural labourer or farmer, means any
of the relatives of such member as specified below:-(i)wife or husband, as the
case may be;(ii)children;(iii)widow and children of the pre-deceased son;
and(iv)parents;(5)"employer" means a person who engages an agricultural
labourer;(6)"farmer" means a farmer in the age group of 18 to 65 years who
owns wet land not exceeding 2.50 acres or dry land not exceeding 5.00 acres
and engage in direct cultivation of that land and includes a registered
cultivating tenant;(7)"Fund" means the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers
Farmers Social Security and Welfare Fund established under a
Scheme;(8)"Government" means the State Government;(9)"registered cultivating
tenant" means a person in the age group of 18 to 65 years, who holds wet land
not exceeding 2.50 acres or dry land not exceeding 5.00 acres under a
registered tenancy , agreement and carry on direct cultivation of that
land.Explanation. - For the purpose of clauses (6) and (9), in case of a
holding consisting both wet and dry land, 0.50 acre of wet land I shall be
equal to one acre of dry land;(10)"registered members" means agricultural
labourers or farmers I registered as a member under a scheme;(11)"Schedule"
means Schedule to this Act;(12)"scheme" means a scheme made by the Government
under this Act;(13)"Member Secretary" means the Member Secretary of the Board
constituted under section 5.

### 3. Scheme.

(1)The Government may, by notification, by means of a scheme provide for the
registration of members and make provisions for the purpose of ensuring social
security and welfare of the agricultural labourers and farmers.(2)The relief
or assistance, as the case maybe, to its registered members, in respect of all
or any of the following matters, that is to say-(a)Accident relief for death
and injury;(b)Natural death;(c)Funeral expenses;(d)Education of
children;(e)Marriage;(f)Delivery or miscarriage or termination of
pregnancy;(g)Old age pension;shall be as specified in the Schedule.(3)The
Government may, in consultation with the Board, by notification, add to, amend
or vary all or any of the provisions of the aforesaid scheme or substitute
another scheme for any scheme made by it.

### 4. Disputes regarding application of the scheme.

\- If any question arises whether any scheme applies to any class of
agricultural labourers or farmers, the matter shall be referred to such
authority as may be prescribed in this behalf and the decision of such
authority shall be final.

### 5. Establishment of Board.

(1)The Government may, by notification, establish a Board to be known by such
name as may be specified in the notification for implementing and
administering a scheme.(2)The Board shall be a body corporate with the name
aforesaid, having perpetual succession and common seal, with power to acquire,
hold and dispose of property, and to contract, and may, by that name, sue or
be sued.(3)The Board shall consist of members nominated, from time to time, by
the Government representing the agricultural labourers, farmers, employers and
the Government of whom the Commissioner of Land Reforms shall be the Member
Secretary of the Board.(4)[ The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed from
amongst the members nominated to represent the Government and a Joint Chairman
of the Board may be.] [Substituted for '(4) The Chairman of the Board shall be
appointed from amongst the members nominated to represent the Government.' by
Act No. 24 of 2009, dated 5.8.2009, w.e.f. 3.6.2009.](5)After nomination of
all the members of the Board including the Chairman, the Government shall, by
notification, publish the names of all the members of the Board.(6)The term of
office of members of the Board shall be such as may be prescribed.(7)The
meetings of the Board and procedures to be followed for the purpose and all
matters supplementary or ancillary thereto shall, subject to the approval of
the Government, be regulated by the Board itself.

### 6. Power of Government to appoint one-man Board.

(1)For any reasons whatsoever, if it appears to the Government that it is
unable to establish a Board in accordance with the provisions of section 5,
the Government may, by notification, appoint a person who shall hold office
until a Board is duly established under section 5.(2)The person so appointed
shall be deemed to constitute the Board for the time being, and shall exercise
all the powers and perform and discharge all the duties and functions
conferred and imposed upon the Board by or under this Act. He shall continue
in office until the day immediately preceding the date of the first meeting of
such Board.(3)The person constituting the Board shall receive such
remuneration from the fund of the Board, and the terms and other conditions of
service shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 7. Powers and duties of the Board.

(1)The Board shall be responsible for administering a scheme, and shall
exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be conferred on it by
the scheme.(2)The Board may take such measures as it may deem fit for
administering the scheme.(3)The Board shall submit to the Government as soon
as may be, after the first day of April every year, the annual report on the
working of the scheme during the preceding year ending on thirty-first March
of that year. Every report so received shall be laid as soon as may be after
it is received before the Legislative Assembly if it is in session, or in the
session immediately following the date of receipt of the report.(4)The Board
shall receive all contributions and use such contributions in the manner as it
may deem fit in order to achieve the objects of the scheme.(5)In exercise of
the powers and discharge of its functions, the Board shall be bound by such
directions as the Government may, for reasons to be stated in writing, give to
it, from time to time.

### 8. Committees.

(1)The Government may, by order, constitute District level, taluk level or
village level committees with members nominated by the Board and such
committees shall be presided by an official nominated by the Government.(2)The
Committee shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be specified
in the scheme or entrusted by the Board, from time to time.

### 9. Contribution to the Fund.

(1)There shall be a Fund constituted in the name and style as "Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Labourers - Farmers Social Security and Welfare Fund" under a
scheme and all monies received from the sources as specified in sub-section
(3) shall be credited to such Fund.(2)The Board shall hold the fund in any of
the Nationalised Banks or any of the Co-operative Banks under the control and
supervision of the Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Bank or any other Bank as may
be decided by the Board, with the approval of the Government, from time to
time. Such an account shall be jointly operated by any two of the authorized
signatories of the Board, one of them being the Member Secretary.(3)The
contributions to the Fund shall be made by the sources specified in sub-
section (4), the Government and such other sources as may be specified in the
scheme.(4)The contribution towards the Fund shall be,-(i)one rupee per quintal
from the paddy procured from the agriculturists by the Tamil Nadu Civil
Supplies Corporation;(ii)one rupee per tonne of the sugar-cane brought by the
agriculturists and procured by every sugar mill (both private and public
sector) and one rupee per quintal of the sugar produced by the sugar
mills;(iii)one per cent of the total fee collected from the traders by the
Marketing Committee established under sub-section (1) of section 5 of the
Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu
Act 27 of 1989).(5)The Government may, in consultation with the Board, revise
the proportion in which the contribution is to be collected.(6)The
contribution to the fund referred to in sub-section (4) shall be remitted to
the Fund within such period and in such manner as may be prescribed.(7)All the
expenditures relating to the implementation of the scheme shall be met from
the Fund including the contingent expenditure in the administration of the
scheme.

### 10. Recovery of dues to the Board.

(1)On an application made by the Board for the recovery of arrears of any sum
payable to it under this Act or under the scheme and on its furnishing of a
statement of accounts in respect of such arrears, the Collector may, after
making such inquiries as he deems fit, grant a certificate for the recovery of
the amount stated therein to be due as arrears.(2)A certificate by the
Collector shall be final and conclusive as to the arrears due. The arrears
stated to be due therein shall be recovered as arrears of land revenue by the
Collector and remitted to the Board.

### 11. Accounts and audit.

(1)The Board shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and
prepare an annual statement of accounts, including a balance sheet in such
form as may be prescribed.(2)The accounts of the Board shall be audited
annuals by such qualified person as the Government may appoint in this
behalf.(3)The auditor shall, at all reasonable time, have access to the books
of accounts and other documents of the Board, and may, for the purposes of the
audit, call for such explanation and information as he may require or examine
any member or officer of the Board.(4)The accounts of the Board certified by
the auditor, together with the audited report thereon, shall be forwarded
annually to the Government before such date as the Government may specify in
this behalf.(5)The Board shall comply with such directions as the Government
may, after perusal of the report of the auditor, think fit to issue.(6)The
cost of audit shall be paid out of the funds of the Board.

### 12. Disqualifications and removal.

(1)No person shall be chosen as, or continue to be, a member of the Board
who-(a)is a salaried officer of the Board; or(b)is or at any time has been
adjudged insolvent; or(c)is found to be a lunatic or becomes of unsound mind;
or(d)is or has been convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude.(2)The
Government may remove from office any member w ho-(a)is or has become subject
to any of the disqualifications mentioned in sub-section (1); or(b)is absent
without leave of the Board for more than three consecutive meetings of the
Board.

### 13. Resignation by members.

\- Any member of the Board may, at any time, resign his office by writing
under his hand addressed to the Government, and his office shall, on
acceptance of resignation by the Government, become vacant.

### 14. Filling up of vacancies.

\- In the event of any vacancy occurring on account of death, resignation,
disqualification or removal or otherwise, the Board shall, forthwith,
communicate the occurrence to the Government and the vacancy shall be filled
not later than ninety days from the date of the occurrence of the vacancy, and
the person nominated to fill in the vacancy shall hold office so long only as
the member in whose place he is nominated would have held it if the vacancy
had not occurred:Provided that during any such vacancy, the continuing members
may act as if no vacancy has occurred.

### 15. Proceedings presumed to be good and valid.

\- No act or proceedings of the Board shall be questioned or invalidated
merely by reason of any vacancy in its membership or by reason of any defect
in the constitution thereof.

### 16. Rights and privileges under other laws not affected in certain cases.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall affect any rights or privileges, which
any agricultural labourer or farmer is entitled to, on the date on which this
Act comes into force, under any other law, contract, custom or usage
applicable to such agricultural labourer or farmer if such rights or
privileges are more favourable to him than those to which he would be entitled
under this Act and the scheme:Provided that such agricultural labourer or
farmer will not be entitled to receive any corresponding benefit under the
provisions of this Act and the scheme.

### 17. Enquiry into working of the Board.

(1)The Government may, at any time, appoint any person to investigate or
enquire into the working of the Board or scheme and submit a report to the
Government in that behalf.(2)The Board shall give to the person so appointed
all facilities for the proper conduct of the investigation or enquiry, and
furnish to him such documents, accounts or information in possession of the
Board as he may require.

### 18. Supersession of the Board.

(1)If the Government, on consideration of the report referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 17 or otherwise, is of the opinion-(a)that the Board is
unable to perform its functions; or(b)that the Board has persistently made
default in the discharge of its functions or has exceeded or abused its
powers, the Government may, by notification, supersede the Board and re-
constitute it in the prescribed manner, within a period of twelve months from
the date of supersession. The period of supersession may be extended for
sufficient reasons by a like notification by not more than six months:Provided
that before issuing a notification under this sub-section on any of the
grounds mentioned in clause (b), the Government shall give a reasonable
opportunity to the board to show cause why it should not be superseded, and
shall consider the explanations and objections, if any, of the Board.(2)After
the supersession of the Board and until it is re-constituted, the powers,
duties and functions of the Board under this Act shall be exercised and
performed by the Government, or by such officer or officers as the Government
may appoint for this purpose.(3)When the Board is superseded, the following
consequences shall ensure, that is to say:(a)all the members of the Board
shall, as from the date of publication of the notification under sub-section
(1) vacate their office;(b)all the powers and functions, which may be
exercised or performed by the Board shall, during the period of supersession,
be exercised or performed by such persons as may be specified in the
notification;(c)all funds and other property vesting in the Board shall,
during the period of supersession, vest in the Government and on the re-
constitution of the Board, such funds and property shall revest in the Board.

### 19. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Government or the Board or the Chairman, Member Secretary, or any member of
the Board or Committee, or any other officers of the Board for anything which
is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act, or any
scheme or any rule or order made thereunder.

### 20. Power to amend Schedule.

\- The Government may, by notification, add to, or modify, the Schedule.

### 21. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule or order made or notification issued under this Act
shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the Table
of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or in the next session, the Legislative Assembly makes any
modification in any such rule, order or notification or the Legislative
Assembly decides that the rule, order or notification should not be made or
issued, the rule, order or notification shall, thereafter, have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule, order or notification.

### 22. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, as occasion requires, by order, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, do anything which appears to be necessary or expedient
for the purpose of removing the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall
be made after the expiry of two years from the date of commencement of this
Act.The Schedule[See Section 3(2)]

SI. No. | Reliefer Assistance | Amount (in Rupees)  
---|---|---  
1. | Accident Relief. |   
| (a) Death due to accident. | 1,00,000  
| (b) Loss of both hands. | 1,00,000  
| (c) Loss of both legs. | 1,00,000  
| (d) Loss of one hand and one leg. | 1,00,000  
| (e) Total and irrecoverable loss of sight in both eyes. | 1,00,000  
| (f) Loss of one hand or one leg. | 50,000  
|  (g) Loss of limbs from grievous injuries other than thosespecified above. | 20,000  
2. | Natural death | 10,000  
3. | Funeral expenses | 2,500  
4. | Educational assistance to - | Day Scholar | Hosteller  
| Son and daughter of the members | Boys | Girls | Boys | Girls  
| (a) 10th Std. pass | 1250 | 1500 | - | -  
| (b) 12th Std. pass | 1750 | 2000 | - | -  
| (c) I.T.I or Polytechnic (per year) | 1250 | 1750 | 1450 | 1950  
| (d) Bachelor Degree (per year) | 1750 | 2250 | 2000 | 2500  
| (e) Post Graduate (per year) | 2250 | 2750 | 3250 | 3750  
| (f) Professional Courses (Law, Engineering, etc.) (per year) | 2250 | 2750 | 4250 | 4750  
| (g) Post Graduate Professional Courses (per year). | 4250 | 4750 | 6250 | 6750  
| (h) Loss of one hand or one leg. |  |  | 50,000 |   
5. | Marriage Assistance |  |  |  |   
| (a) Marriage of member |  |  |  |   
| (i) Male |  |  | 3,000 |   
| (ii) Female |  |  | 5,000 |   
| (b) Marriage of son or daughter of the Member |  |  |  |   
| (i) Male |  |  | 3,000 |   
| (ii) Female |  |  | 5,000 |   
6. |  Delivery or Miscarriage Of Pregnancy or Termination ofPregnancy. |  |  |  |   
| i) Delivery |  | 6,000 (@ Rs. 1,000 per month for six months) |   
| ii) Miscarriage |  | 3,000 |   
| iii) Termination |  | 3,000 |   
7. | Old Age Pension (per month). |  | 400 | 

