## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Civil Courts Act, 1873

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Civil Courts Act, 1873

## Act 3 of 1873

  * Published on 25 May 2010 
  * Commenced on 25 May 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 May 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Civil Courts Act, 1873(Central Act No. 3 of 1873)Last Updated
14th January, 2020Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Civil Courts
Act, 1873 (Central Act III of 1873). - For Statement of Objects and Reasons,
see Gazette of India, 1873, Part V, page 173; for Report of the Select
Committee, see ibid, page 695 ; for Proceedings in Council relating to the
Bill see ibid; Supplement, 1870, page 900 and ibid, 1873, pages 3,16 and
153.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Madras Civil Courts (Amendment) Act,
1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1959). - When the Courts of District Judges,
Subordinate Judges or District Munsifs are closed for the summer vacation
under section 30 of the Madras Civil Courts Act 1873 (Central Act III of
1873), it is not possible for parties to institute suits and other proceedings
in such Courts until after the vac ation. This has given rise to inconvenience
and hardship to the litigant public. The need for a provision in the Madras
Civil Courts Act, 1873, for dealing with urgent civil matters during the
summer vacation has been universally felt. It is proposed to amend that Act,
providing for appointment of vacation Civil Judges, who may entertain suits,
appeals or proceedings and pass final orders thereon.2\. The Bill seeks to
give effect to the above object.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Civil Courts and the Madras City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1995). - The Committee constituted by the Government of India under
the Chairmanship of Justice Thiru Malimath, has given its recommendations to
tackle the problem o£increase in cases in Courts and the consequential delay
in the disposal of cases.2\. The said recommendations were discussed at the
Law Minister's Conference held in 1992 and also in the Chief Ministers' and
Chief Justices' Conference held in December 1993. Various measures including
the upward revision of the pecuniary jurisdiction of the hierarchy of courts
has been proposed as one of the measures to tackle the mounting problem of
accumulation of arrears in the Courts of Law.3\. Accordingly, the Government
have examined the question of revision of pecuniary jurisdiction of Courts in
Tamil Nadu in consultation with the High Court, Madras. Based on the proposal
of the High Court, Madras, the Government have decided to enhance the
pecuniary jurisdiction of various Civil Courts subordinate to the High Court
in the State by amending the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts Act, 1873 (Central Act
III of 1873) and the Madras City Civil Court Act, 1892 (Central Act VII of
1892), suitably.4\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Civil Courts
(Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1996). - In order to tackle the
problem of mounting arrears of civil cases, the pecuniary jurisdiction of the
Courts have been enhanced from the 1st December, 1995. It is now considered
necessary to further enhance the pecuniary limits of the appellate
jurisdiction of Civil Courts under the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts Act, 1873
(Central Act III of 1873).2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Civil Courts and the
Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2004). -
The Registrar General, High Court, Madras has brought to the notice of the
Government that there is an uneven distribution of works among the subordinate
Courts in the State and in order to avoid this situation and ensure early
disposal of cases, he has recommended for the enhancement of the monetary
limit of the Original Jurisdiction and Appellate Jurisdiction of the Courts
subordinate to High Court. The Government have accepted the recommendation of
the Registrar General, High Court, Madras and decided to amend the Tamil Nadu
Civil Courts Act, 1873 (Central Act III of 1873) and the Chennai City Civil
Court Act, (Central Act VII of 1892) suitably fur the purposes.2\. The Bill
seeks to gave effect to the above decision.Transitory provision(1) All suits
pending in a Subordinate Court or District Court on the date of the
commencement of Tamil Nadu Civil Courts and the [Chennai City Civil Court
(Amendment) Act, 2003] and which would be within the cognizance of the
District Munsif Court, Subordinate Court or District Court, under the
provisions of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts Act, 1873 (Central Act III of 1873),
as amended by this Act, shall stand transferred to the Court having
jurisdiction over the subject-matter.(2) All suits pending before an Assistant
Judge, an Additional Judge or a Principal Judge or in the High Court on the
date of the Commencement of this Act, and which would be within the cognizance
of the Chennai City Civil Court under the provisions of the Chennai City Civil
Court Act, 1892 (Central Act VII of 1892), as amended by this Act, shall stand
transferred to the Assistant Judge, Additional Judge or the Principal Judge,
having jurisdiction over the subject-matter.An Act to consolidate and amend
the law relating to the Civil Courts of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the words 'Madras President' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1970, which was deemed to have came into force on the 14th January, 1969.]
subordinate to the High Court.Whereas it is expedient to consolidate and amend
the law relating to the Civil Courts of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the words 'Madras President' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1970, which was deemed to have came into force on the 14th January, 1969.]
subordinate to the High Court; It is hereby enacted as follows:-

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969, which came into force on
thel4th January 1969.] Civil Courts Act, 1873.Local extent. - [It extends to
the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu ;] [This paragraph zoos substituted for
the original second paragraph by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.] and
Commencement. - It shall tome into force on the 1st day of March 1873.This Act
was extended to the merged State of Pudukottai by section 3 of, and the First
Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu Merged States (Laws) Act, 1949 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXXV of 1949). This Act was further extended to the Kanyakumari district and
the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district by section 3 of, and the
Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu (Transferred Territory) Extension of Laws Act,
1957 (Tamil Nadu Act XXII of 1957), repealing the corresponding law in force
in that territory. This Act was also extended to the added territories by
section 3 of, and the First Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu (Added Territories)
Extension of Laws Act, 1962 (Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 1962), which came into force
on the 1st day of December 1962.

### 2.

This section Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1873 (Central Act XII of 1873).

## Part II – Establishment and Constitution of Civil Courts

### 3. Number of District Courts.

\- The number of District (heretofore designated Zilla) Courts to be
established or continued under this Act shall be fixed, and may, from time to
time, be altered by the [State Government] [The words 'Provincial Government'
were substituted for the words, 'Local Government' by the Adaptation Order of
1937 and the word 'Provided that no increase to the number of such Courts
shall be made by such Government, without the previous sanction of the
Governor-General in Council' was substituted for 'Provincial' by the
Adaptation Order of 1950.].[x x x] [The words 'Provided that no increase to
the number of such Courts shall be made by such Government, without the
previous sanction of the Governor-General in Council' were repealed by the
Decentralization Act, 1914 (Central Act IV of 1914), Schedule, Part I.]

### 3A. [ Appointment of Additional District Judge. [Section 3-A was inserted
by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 1931 (Madras Act
II of 1931).]

\- When, in the opinion of the High Court, the state of business pending
before the Judge of any District Court (hereinafter called the "District
Judge") so requires, the [State Government] may appoint one or more Additional
District Judges to that Court for such period as they may deem necessary.The
Additional District Judges so appointed shall discharge all or any of the
functions of the District Judge under this Act or any other law for the time
being in force which the District Judge may assign to them, and, in the
discharge of those functions, they shall exercise the same powers as the
District Judge.]

### 4. Number of Subordinate Judges and District Munsifs.

\- The number of Subordinate Judges and District Munsifs to be appointed under
this Act for each district shall be fixed and may, from time to time, be
altered, by the [State Government] [The words 'Provincial Government' were
substituted for the words, 'Local Government' by the Adaptation Order of 1937
and the word 'State' was substituted for 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order
of 1950.].[X X X] [The words 'Provided that no increase to the number of such
Courts shall be made by such Government, without the previous sanction of the
Governor-General in Council' were repealed by the Decentralization Act, 1914
(Central Act IV of 1914), Schedule, Part I.][The [State Government] [This
paragraph was added by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts (Amendment)
Act, 1925 (Madras Act III of 1925).] may, after consultation with the High
Court, fix and, from time to time, vary by notification the number of
Subordinate Judges to be appointed for a Subordinate Judge's Court or the
number of District Munsifs to be appointed for a District Munsifs Court.]

### 4A. [ [Section 4-A was inserted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Civil
Courts (Amendment) Act, 1925 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1925).]

When more than one Subordinate Judge appointed to a Sub-ordinate Judge's Court
or more than one District Munsif to a District Munsif s Court, one of the
Subordinate Judges or the District Munsifs shall be appointed the Principal
Subordinate Judge or Principal District Munsif and the others Additional
Subordinate Judges or Additional District Munsifs, as the case may be.Each of
the Judges appointed to a Subordinate Judge's Court or a District Munsifs
Court may exercise all or any of the powers conferred on the Court by this Act
or any other law for the time being in force.Subject to the general or special
orders of the District Judge, the Principal Subordinate Judge or the Principal
District Munsif may, from time to time, make such arrangements as he thinks
fit for the distribution of the business of the Court among the various Judges
thereof.]

### 5. Court's locality.

\- The place at which any Court under this Act shall be held may be fixed, and
may, from time to time, be altered,-in the case of a District Court or a
Subordinate Judge's Court, by the [State Government] [The words 'Provincial
Government' were substituted for the words, 'Local Government' by the
Adaptation Order of 1937 and the word 'State' was substituted for 'Provincial'
by the Adaptation Order of 1950.],in the case of a District Munsif's Court by
the High Court.[The places fixed for any Court under this section shall be
deemed to be within the local jurisdiction of that Court.] [The sentence was
added by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts Act, 1885 (Central Act XXI
of 1885).]

### 6.

[Section 6 was omitted by the Adaptation Order of 1937.]

### 7.

[Section 7 was omitted by the Adaptation Order of 1937.]

### 8. District Courts, Subordinate Judges and District Munsifs.

\- The present Zilla Courts, Principal Sadar Amins, and District Munsifs,
shall respectively be the first "District Courts", "Subordinate Judges", and
"District Munsifs" under this Act.

### 9. Seal of Court.

\- Every Court under this Act shall use a seal of such form and dimensions as
are, for the time being, prescribed by the [State Government] [The words
'Provincial Government' were substituted for the words, 'Local Government' by
the Adaptation Order of 1937 and the word 'State' was substituted for
'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.].

## Part III – Jurisdiction

### 10. Local limits of jurisdiction of District Court or Subordinate Judges.

\- The [State Government] [The words 'Provincial Government' were substituted
for the words, 'Local Government' by the Adaptation Order of 1937 and the word
'State' was substituted for 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.]
shall fix and may, from time to time, vary the local limits of the
jurisdiction of any [District Court or Subordinate Judge's Court] [These Words
were substituted for the words 'District Judge of Subordinate Judge' by
section 4(a) of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 1925 (Madras Act
III of 1925).] under this Act.[x x x] [The proviso to section 10 was omitted
by section 4(b) of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 1925 (Madras
Act III of 1925).]The present local limits of the jurisdiction of every Civil
Court (other than the High Court) shall be deemed to have been fixed under
this Act.

### 11. Local Jurisdiction of District Munsifs.

\- The High Court shall fix, and may, from time to time, modify the local
jurisdiction of District Munsifs.[x x x] [The second paragraph of section 11,
which was added by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts Act, lbs (Central
Act XXI of 1885) was omitted by section 5 of Tamil Nadu Civil Courts
(Amendment) Act, 1925 (Madras Act HI of 1925).]

### 12. Jurisdiction of District Judge or Subordinate Judge in original suits.

\- [The jurisdiction of a District Judge extends, subject to the rules
contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, to all original suits and
proceedings of a civil nature, of which the amount of value of the subject
matter exceeds five lakh rupees. The jurisdiction of a Subordinate Judge
extends, subject to the rules contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, to all
like original suits and proceedings, of which the amount or value of the
subject-matter exceeds one lakh rupees, but does not exceed [ten lakh rupees.]
[First paragraph was substituted by the Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2004, dated
6.11.2003, w.e.f. 8.1.2004.]]Jurisdiction of District Munsif. - The
jurisdiction of a District Munsif extends to all like suits and proceedings,
not otherwise exempted from his cognizance, of which the amount of value of
the subject-matter does not exceed [ten lakh rupees.] [Substituted 'five lakh
rupees' by Act No. 19 of 2010, dated 25.5.2010.]

### 13. Appeals from decrees of District Courts.

\- Regular or special appeals [x x x] [These words and figures 'or appeals
under Madras Regulation XI of 1832,' section 9 were repealed by the Repealing
and Amending Act, 1891 (Central Act XII of 1891).] shall, when such appeals
are allowed by law, lie from the decrees and orders of a District Court to the
High Court.[Appeals from the decrees and orders of Subordinate Judges and
District Munsifs shall, when such appeals are allowed by law, lie to the
District Court, if passed-] [Second paragraph was substituted by Tamil Nadu
Civil Courts and the Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1995).](i)before the date of the commencement of the Tamil Nadu
Civil Courts and the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City
of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City
Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1995) except when the
amount or value of the subject-matter of the suit exceeds rupees thirty
thousand in which case the appeal shall lie to the High Court; and(ii)[ on or
after the 1st day of December 1995 except when the amount or value of the
subject-matter of the suit exceeds rupees three lakhs in which case the appeal
shall lie to the High Court.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Civil Courts
(Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1996).]Appellate jurisdiction of
Subordinate Judge. - Provided that, whenever a Subordinate Judge's Court is
established in any district at a place remote from the station of the District
Court, the High Court may, with the previous sanction of the [State
Government] [The words 'Provincial Government' were substituted for the words,
'Local Government' by the Adaptation Order of 1937 and the word 'State' was
substituted for 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.], direct that
appeals from the decrees or orders of District Munsifs within the local limits
of the jurisdiction of such Subordinate Judge be preferred in the Court of the
latter :Disposal of appeal by District Judge. - Provided also that the
District Judge may remove to his own Court, from time to time, appeals so
preferred, and dispose of them himself, or may, subject to the orders of the
High Court, refer any appeals from the decrees and orders of District Munsifs,
preferred in the District Court, to any Subordinate Judge within the
district:[Provided further that when the District Court or the Subordinate
Judge's Court to which appeals lie is adjourned under [sub-section (1) of
section 30] [This proviso was added by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Civil
Courts (Amendment) Act, 1945 (Tamil Nadu Act XXII of 1945). This was
permanently re-enacted by section 2 of, and the First Schedule to, the Tamil
Nadu Re-enacting and Repealing (No. 1) Act, 1948 (Tamil Nadu Act VII of
1948).], the High Court shall have power to receive such appeals.]

### 13A. [ Appeals from decrees of Subordinate Courts. [Section 13-A was
inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2004, dated 6.11.2003, w.e.f. 8.1.2004.]

\- Appeals from the decrees and orders of Subordinate Judges, if passed on or
after the date of the commencement of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts and the
Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2004)
shall, when such appeals are allowed by the law, lie to the District
Court.Appeals from decrees of District Munsif. - Appeals from the decrees and
orders of District Munsifs, if passed on of after the date of the commencement
of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts and the Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment)
Act, 2003, shall, when such appeals are allowed by law, lie to the Subordinate
Court.]

### 14.

[This section was repealed by section 84 of the Tamil Nadu Court-Fees and
Suits Valuation Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1955), which came into force
on the 19th May 1955.]

### 15. Power to require witness for party to make oath or affirmation.

\- Every Court under this Act may require a witness or party to any suit or
other proceeding pending in such Court to make such oath or affirmation as is
prescribed by the law for the time being in force.

### 16. [ Law administered by Courts to natives. [The provisions of this
section in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of the Muslim
Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937 (Central Act XXVI of 1937), have
been repealed-See section 8 of that Act.]

\- Where, in any suit or proceeding, it is necessary for any Court under this
Act to decide any question regarding secession, inheritance, marriage or
caste, of any religious usage or institution,-(a)the Muhammadan law in cases
where the parties are Muhammadans and the Hindu law in cases where the parties
are Hindus, or(b)any custom (if such there be) having the force of law and
governing the parties or property concerned, shall form the rule of decision,
unless such law or custom has, be legislative enactment, been altered or
abolished,(c)in cases where no specific rule exists, the Court shall act
according to justice, equity and good conscience.]

### 17. Judges not to try suits in which they are interested; not to try
appeals from decrees passed by them in other capacities.

\- [No District Judge, Vacation Civil Judge, Subordinate Judge or District
Munsif] [These words were substituted for the words 'No District Judge,
Subordinate fudge or District Munsif by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Civil
Courts (Amendment) Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1959).] shall try any suit
to or in which he is a party or personally interested, or shall adjudicate
upon any proceeding connected with, or arising out of, such suit.[No District
Judge, Vacation Civil Judge or Subordinate Judge] [These words were
substituted for the words 'No District Judge or Subordinate Judge' by Tamil
Nadu Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1959).] shall
try appeal against a decree or order passed by himself in another
capacity.Mode of disposing of such suits and appeals. - When any such suit,
proceeding or appeal comes before any such officer, he shall report the
circumstances to the Court to which he is immediately subordinate.The superior
Court shall, thereupon, dispose of the case in the manner prescribed by the
[Code of Civil Procedure, section 6] [See now the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (Central Act V of 1908), section 24.]Nothing in the last proceeding
clause of this section shall be deemed to affect the extraordinary original
civil jurisdiction of the High Court.

## Part IV – 18 to 21.

[The whole of Part IV which contained sections 18 to 21 was omitted by the
Adaptation Order of 1937.]

## Part V – Ministerial Officers

### 22.

[These sections were omitted by the Adaptation Order of 1937.]

### 23.

[These sections were omitted by the Adaptation Order of 1937.]

### 24. [ Duties of Ministerial Officers. [Substituted for the original
section by the Adaptation Order of 1937.]

\- The Ministerial Officers of a Court shall perform such duties as may, from
time to time, be imposed upon them by the presiding officer of the Court.

### 24A.

These sections were omitted by the Adaptation Order of 1937.]

## Part VI – Miscellaneous

### 24B. [ Appointment of Subordinate Judge for two or more districts. [This
section was inserted by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts (Amendment)
Act, 1948 (Madras Act X of 1948).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, a Subordinate Judge may,
where the [State] Government so direct, be appointed for the area comprised
within the local limits of the jurisdiction of two or more District
Courts.(2)A Subordinate Judge so appointed shall hold his Court at such place
within the jurisdiction of each of the said District Courts and for such
period as the High Court may, from time to time, fix.(3)The local limits of
the jurisdiction of the Subordinate Judge's Court, when it is held at any such
place, shall be the same as those of the District Court concerned, but the
Subordinate Judge's Court shall not entertain any original suit or proceeding
and shall try or dispose of only such suits, appeals and other proceedings as
may be transferred to it by the District Court under this Act or any other
law.(4)Appeals from the decrees and of the Subordinate Judge in suits or
proceedings so transferred shall, where they lie to a District Court, lie to
the District Court which transferred the suits or proceedings.]

### 25. Temporary discharge of duties of District Judge.

\- In the event of the death of the District Judge,-or of his being
incapacitated by illness or otherwise, for the performance of his duties,or of
his absence from the station in which his court is held,[the senior Additional
District Judge or the Additional District Judge, as the case may be, or if
there is no Additional District Judge] [These words were inserted by section 6
of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 1931 (Madras Act II of
1931).], the senior Subordinate Judge of the District shall, without,
interruption to his ordinary duties, assume charge of the District Judge's
office, and shall discharge such of the current duties thereof as are
connected with the filing of suits and appeals, the execution of processes and
the like, and shall continue in charge of the office until the same is resumed
or assumed by an officer duly appointed thereto.

### 26.

[Section 26 was omitted by the Adaptation Order of 1937.]

### 27. District Judge to control Civil Courts of District.

\- Subject to the other provisions of this Act and to the rules for the time
being in force and prescribed by the High Court in this behalf, the general
control over all the Civil Courts under this Act in any district is vested in
the District Judge.

### 28. [ Investiture of District or Subordinate Judge with Small Cause
Jurisdiction. [See section 2(2) of the Tamil Nadu Civil and Village Courts
(Amendment) Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XVI of 1951), which came into force on
the 19th May, 1955.]

\- The [High Court] may, by notification in the Official Gazette, invest
within such local limits as it shall, from time to time, appoint, any
[District or] [These words were inserted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Civil
Courts Act, 1885 (Central Act XXI of 1885).] Subordinate Judge with the
jurisdiction of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes for the trial of suits
cognizable by such Courts up to the amount of [twenty thousand rupees]
[Substituted for the words 'rupees two thousand' by the Tamil Nadu Civil
Courts and the Chennai City Civil Court (Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1995).]Investiture of District Munsif with similar jurisdiction. - And
any District Munsif with the same jurisdiction up to the amount of [x x x]
[The words 'rupees fifty or on the recommendation of the High Court up to any
amount not exceeding' were repealed by the Decentralisation Act, 1914 (Central
Act IV of 1914).] [five thousand rupees] [Substituted for the words 'rupees
fifty hundred' by the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts and the Chennai City Civil Court
(Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1995).], and may, by like
notification, whenever it thinks fit, withdraw such jurisdiction from the
[District or] [These words were inserted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Civil
Courts Act, 1885 (Central Act XXI of 1885).] Subordinate Judge or Munsif or
invested.]

### 29. [ Exercise by Subordinate Judge of jurisdiction of District Judge in
certain proceedings. [Inserted by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts
(Amendment) Act, 1926 (Central Act XIV of 1926).]

(1)The High Court may, by general or special order, authorize any Subordinate
Judge to take cognizance of, or any District Judge to transfer to any
Subordinate Judge under his control, any proceedings under the Indian
Succession Act, 1925 (Central Act XXXIX of 1925) which cannot be disposed of
by District Delegates.(2)The District Judge may withdraw any such proceedings
taken cognizance of by, or transferred to, a Subordinate Judge and may either
himself dispose of them or transfer them to a Court under his control
competent to dispose of them.(3)Notwithstanding anything in section 13,
proceedings taken cognizance of by, or transferred to a Subordinate Judge
under the provisions of this section shall be disposed of by him subject to
the law applicable to like proceedings when disposed of by the District
Judge.]

### 30. Vacation.

\- [(1) The High Court may permit the Civil Courts under its control to
adjourn, from time to time, for periods not exceeding in the aggregate two
months in each year.] [The original section 30 was re-numbered as sub-section
(1) of that section by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts (Amendment)
Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1959).](2)[ Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act or in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908),
the State Government may, in consultation with the High Court, for the
duration of the adjournment of any District Court in summer, appoint for such
District Court, a Subordinate Judge to be designated the Vacation Civil
Judge.(3)(a)The local limits of the jurisdiction of the Vacation Civil Judge
shall be the same as those of the District Court concerned.(b)The jurisdiction
of the Vacation Civil Judge shall extend to all suits appeals and other
proceedings pending in, or cognizable by, any Civil Court (whether a District
Court, a Subordinate Judge's Court or a District Munsif's Court) in the
district concerned when such Court is adjourned for summer vacation.(4)The
place, at which the Court of the vacation Civil Judge shall be held, shall be
the same as the place at which the District Court concerned may be held. The
Vacation Civil Judge shall have such administrative control over the staff of
the several Civil Courts in tire district, as the High Court may, by general
or special order, determine.(5)Notwithstanding the appointment of the Vacation
Civil Judge, every Civil Court in the district shall, during the period it is
adjourned for summer vacation, be deemed to be closed for the purpose of
section 4 of the [Indian Limitation Act, 1908] [Sub-sections (2) to (7) were
added by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 1959 (Tamil
Nadu Act 17 of 1959).] (Central Act IX of 1908).(6)On the reopening of the
District Court, a Subordinate Judge's Court or a District Munsif's Court after
the summer vacation, all suits, appeals and other proceedings pending in the
Court of the Vacation Civil Judge which, but for this section, would have been
instituted or pending in such District Court, Subordinate Judge's Court or
District Munsif s Court, as the case may be, shall stand transferred to such
District Court, Subordinate Judge's Court or District Munsif's Court and any
decree, order or proceeding passed by the Vacation Civil Judge shall, after
such transfer, be deemed to be decree, order or proceeding passed by the Court
concerned.(7)Notwithstanding the provision of sub-section (6), any appeal from
the decree or order of the Court of the Vacation Civil Judge shall, when such
appeal is allowed by law, lie to the High Court.]

## Schedule

[Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1873 (Central Act XII of 1873).]

