## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code, 2004

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code, 2004

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-ELECTRICITY-SUPPLY-CODE-2004 of 2004

  * Published on 21 July 2004 
  * Commenced on 21 July 2004 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 July 2004.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code, 2004Published vide Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7/1, dated 21.7.2004 - No. 6 (2)72484/2004Whereas, under the
Electricity Act, 2003 (Central Act 36 of 2003) the State Electricity
Regulatory Commission shall specify an Electricity Supply Code to provide for
recovery of electricity charges, intervals for billing of electricity charges,
disconnection of supply of electricity for non-payment thereof, restoration of
supply, tampering, distress or damage to electrical plant, electric lines or
meter, entry of distribution licensee or any person acting on his behalf for
disconnecting supply and removing the meter, entry for replacing, altering or
maintaining electric lines or electrical plant or meter;And Whereas, the
regulations providing for, among others, the Electricity Supply Code shall be
subject to the condition of previous publication; and has accordingly
undergone previous publication.Now, Therefore, under section 50 of the said
Electricity Act, 2003 read with section 181 thereof and all other powers
enabling in that behalf, the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission
hereby specifies the following Code:

## Chapter 1  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Code may be called the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code
(TNESC).(2)It shall come into force on the [date] [Vide Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, dated the 1st September 2004 and has come into force on the 1st day
of September 2004. i.e., the date of publication of the said Code.] of
publication of this Code in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Code, unless the context otherwise requires -(a)"Act" means the
Electricity Act, 2003 (Act No.36 of 2003);(aa)[ "Board" means, a State
Electricity Board, constituted before the commencement of the Act, under sub-
section(l) of section 5 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (54 of 1948)]
[Inserted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4/dated 25.5.2007
(w.e.f. 13.6.2007)](b)"Code" means the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply
Code;(c)"Commission" means the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory
Commission;(d)"Connected Load" means the aggregate of the manufacturer's
rating of all equipments connected to the consumer's installation and of all
portable equipments and also the capacity of the power source required to test
manufactured products and repaired equipment in the installation;Explanation.
- Where the rating is in terms of KVA, it shall be converted to KW by
multiplying it by a power factor of 0.9 and where the rating is in terms of
HP, it shall be converted to KW by multiplying it by a factor of
0.746.(e)"Contracted Load" means the load specified in the agreement between
the consumer and the Licensee engaged in the business of supplying electricity
to him.(f)"Contracted Demand" means the demand specified in the agreement
between the consumer and the licensee engaged in the business of supplying
electricity to him;(g)"Consumer" means any person who is supplied with
electricity for his own use by a Licensee, the Government or by any other
person engaged in the business of supplying electricity to the public under
the Act or any other law for the time being in force and includes any person
whose premises are for the time being connected for the purpose of receiving
electricity with the works of a licensee, the Government or such other person,
as the case may be;(h)"Consumer Meter Card" means a card provided at the low
tension consumer's premises for the purpose of recording the measurements
relating to consumption of electricity and the charges for electricity
consumed and other related charges. It shall also serve the purpose of a
notice to the consumer of the due dates for payment and notice period for
disconnection;(hh)[ "Distribution licensee" means a licensee authorised to
operate and maintain a distribution system for supplying electricity to the
consumers in his area of supply.] [Inserted by Commission's Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-4/dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 13.6.2007).][i) "Engineer" means an
engineer, by whatever name designated, employed by the licensee and is in
charge of the local area of supply and includes any other person duly
authorized by him or his superiors, to exercise any power of an engineer under
this Code."] [[Substituted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4/
dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 13.6.2007) before substitution it was as
under:(i)'Engineer' means an engineer, by whatever name dignated, employed by
the Licensee possessing such qualification as are approved by the Commission
and is in charge o the local area of supply and includes any other person duly
authorized by him or his superiors, to exercise any power of an engineer under
this code;s]](j)"Extra High Tension (EHT) consumer" means a consumer who
obtains supply from the Licensee at Extra High Voltage;(k)"High Tension (HT)
consumer" means a consumer who obtains supply from the Licensee at High
Voltage;(l)"Low Tension (LT) consumer" means a consumer who obtains supply
from the Licensee at Low or Medium Voltage;(m)"Load" means connected load or
contracted load, as the case may be;(n)"Load Factor" means the ratio of the
Average Demand for the month in terms of kilowatts to the maximum demand for
the month in terms of kilowatts and the 'Load Factor' shall be calculated to
three decimal places and rounded off to two decimal places;(o)"Month" unless
the context otherwise requires, shall mean a month reckoned according to the
British Calendar. With reference to billing and payment, it shall mean the
period between the date of meter reading in a particular month and the
corresponding date of meter reading of the immediately succeeding or preceding
month as the context requires;(p)"Occupier" means the person in occupation
(whether as owner or otherwise) of the premises where electricity is used or
intended to be used;(pp)[ "Person" shall include any company or body Corporate
or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or
artificial juridical person.] [Inserted by Commission's Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-4/dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 13.6.2007).](q)"Power Factor" means the
ratio of the real power to the apparent power and average power factor means
the ratio of the Kilowatt-hours to the Kilovolt-ampere-hours consumed during
the billing month;(r)"State Transmission Utility" means the Board or the
Government Company specified as such by the State Government:(s)"Supply", in
relation to electricity, means the sale of electricity to a Licensee or
consumer.Words and expressions used in this Code but not defined either in
this Code or the Act or the General Clauses Act, 1897 (Central Act 10 of 1897)
shall have the same meanings as understood in the engineering and commercial
circles.

## Chapter 2  
Electricity Charges - Billing and Recovery

### 3. Categories of supply.

\- Supply of electricity available to the consumer is of the following
categories:(a)Single-phase 2 wire 240 volts between phase and neutral for
supply to a total connected load not exceeding 4,000 watts (including power
loads).(b)three-phase 4 wire 415 volts between phases and 240 volts between
phase and neutral for supply to a total connected load exceeding 4,000 watts
but not exceeding a demand of 112 KW.(c)The consumer may elect to avail supply
under any one of the above categories where the connected load does not exceed
4,000 watts.(d)Three-phase 3 wire, 11,000 volts and above between phases for
power installation exceeding a demand of 112 KW, the minimum demand however
being 63 KVA.(e)The consumer shall avail supply at 33 KV and above when the
demand is 5 MVA and above.

### 4. Charges recoverable by the licensee.

\- The charges recoverable by the licensee from the consumers are:(1)Tariff
related charges, namely:(i)The price of electricity supplied by him to the
consumer which shall be in accordance with the tariff rates as the Commission
may fix, from time to time, for HT supply, LT supply, temporary supply and for
different categories of consumers. In case, the [***] [The word 'temporary'
omitted as per Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4, dated25.5.2007
(w.e.f. 13.6.2007).] supply is for construction of residential houses, housing
complexes, the tariff shall be commercial tariff till the completion of
construction and to be changed to appropriate tariff on completion. Where it
is intended to use floor polishing equipments, welding equipments for
repairs/maintenance and such other portable equipments temporarily in a
premises having permanent supply, such use shall not be treated as temporary
supply for the purpose oi levying charges. It shall be construed as regular
consumption under the permanent supply tariff.(ii)Demand charges for HT supply
and fixed charges for LT supply shall be payable by the consumer in accordance
with the rates as the Commission may fix, from time to time, for different
categories of consumers.(iii)Disincentive for power factor:Every consumer
shall maintain a power factor:In case of LT supply, of 0.85 lag, andIn case of
HT supply, of 0.90 lag failing which he shall be liable to pay compensation by
way of disincentive at such rates as the Commission may declare, from time to
time. Likewise, the consumer, who maintains the power factor above a specified
level may be rewarded by way of incentive at such rates as the Commission may
declare, from time to time, which shall be adjusted in the bill.(iv)Additional
charges for harmonics dumping Where any equipment installed by a consumer
generates harmonics, the consumer shall provide adequate harmonic suppression
units to avoid dumping of harmonics into licensee's distribution system and
the licensee is at liberty to provide suitable metering equipment to measure
the harmonic level pursuant to such harmonic. Where the consumer fails to
provide such units, he shall be liable to pay compensation at such rates as
the Commission may declare, from time to time.(v)The tax or duty, if any, on
electricity supplied or consumed as may be levied by the State Government
which shall be credited to the Government account as per the directions
received from the Government, from time to time.(vi)At the time of extension
of period of temporary supply, it shall ensured that the advance current
consumption (CC) charges are adequate. The CC charges shall be adjusted
against the advance t CC charges.(2)[ Miscellaneous charges, namely, -
[Substituted by Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-36 dated 01-07-2014.](i)Capacitor
compensation charge(ii)Excess demand charge(iii)Excess contracted load
charge(iv)Belated payment surcharge(v)Additional security deposit, when so
called upon(vi)Service/line/structure/equipments shifting charges(a)Charges
for dismantling temporarily or permanently(b)Charges for re-erection in case
of temporary dismantling(vii)Name transfer charge(viii)Reconnection
charge(ix)Consumer meter card replacement charge(x)Dishonored cheque service
charge(xi)Meter related charges(xii)Application registration
charge(xiii)Service connection charges(xiv)Excess demand and excess energy
charges during Restriction and Control of supply(xv)Charges for restoration of
cheque payment facility(xvi)Charges for testing of
equipments/installations.](3)Minimum charges where applicable.

### 5. Miscellaneous charges.

(1)Capacitor compensation charge:(a)No new LT service with a connected load of
motors of 3 HP and above or for using welding transformers shall be given
unless capacitors of adequate ratings with 1S1 marking are installed; [The
licensee shall specify appropriate capacitor ratings for different capacity
Motors/welding transformers] [Inserted by Commission's Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-4 dated25.5.2007 w.e.f.l3.6.2007)].(b)In case of existing LT
service connections (which are not coming under the purview of power factor
incentive/disincentive scheme) with connected load of motors of 3 HP and above
or for using welding transformers (irrespective of their rating), the consumer
shall install adequate capacitors within a period of two months [(from the
date of issue of notice issued by the licensee in this connection] [Inserted
by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated25.5.2007 w.e.f.
13.6.2007)] and shall be liable to pay a compensation charge of ten per cent
of the price of electricity supplied to him for the preceding four months of
consumption till such time adequate capacitors are installed; and where
inadequate capacitors are installed or where some of the capacitors are
defective, the ten percent shall be reckoned proportionate to the extent of
inadequacy or defect, as the case may be;(c)Where it is found that the
capacitors installed are either inadequate or defective, the licensee shall,
in addition to the levy and collection of capacitor compensation charges, by
notice in writing, call upon the consumer to install adequate capacitors or to
rectify or to replace the defective capacitors, as the case may be, within two
months from the date of notice.(2)Excess demand charge: Whenever the consumer
exceeds the sanctioned demand, excess demand charge shall be:(i)in the case of
HT supply, the maximum demand charges for any month shall be based on the KVA
demand recorded in that month at the point of supply or such percentage of
sanctioned demand as maybe declared by the Commission, from time to time,
whichever is higher The exceeded demand shall alone be charged at double the
normal rate;(ii)in case of LT supply:(a)for domestic and agricultural category
of service, the excess demand charges shall not be applicable;(b)[ For other
categories of LT services with contracted demand equal to or less than 18.6 KW
(25 HP), the excess demand charges shall not be applicable where the connected
load is equal to or less than the contracted demand. [[Substituted by
Commission's Notification No TNERC/SC/7-4 dated25.5.2007, (w.e.f 13.6.2007)
which before substitution stood as under:'(b) For other categories of LT
services where the contracted demand and connected load is equal to or less
than 18.6 KW (25 HP), the excess demand charges shall not be applicable.Note:
Even if a consumer's contracted demand is equal to or less than 18.6 KW (25
HP), or the connected load is more than the contracted demand but less than
18.6 K W (25 HP), as the case may be, the licensee shall install meters with
demand recording facility and bring the consumer under the scope of excess
demand chargeable category. After installation of the meter, if the recorded
demand is in excess of contracted demand, the existing demand, shall, after
intimation to the consumer, be revised to the level of recorded demand and all
relevant charges applicable for extension of additional demand shall be
included in the next bill. No excess demand charge is leviable till such time
the licensee installs meter with demand recording facility and bring the
consumer under the scope of excess demand chargeable category.]]Note: For
services with contracted demand less than or equal to 18.6 KW (25 HP),
whenever the consumer's connected load exceeds the contracted demand, the
licensee shall install meters with demand recording facility and bring the
consumer under the scope of excess demand chargeable category. After
installation of the meter, if the recorded demand is in excess of contracted
demand, the existing demand, shall, after intimation to the consumer, be
revised to the level of recorded demand and all relevant charges applicable
for extension of additional demand shall be included in the next bill. No
excess demand charge is leviable till such time the licensee installs meter
with demand recording facility and bring the consumer under the scope of
excess demand chargeable category.](c)for the remaining LT services other than
those service connections covered in (a) and (b) above, when the contracted
demand is in excess of 18.6KW (25HP) and for such of those consumers whose
contracted demand is less than 18.6 KW (25HP) but opted for having meters with
demand recording facility, the excess demand charges shall be, -(I)where the
recorded demand does not exceed 112 KW, for every KW or part thereof in excess
of the sanctioned demand, at the rate of 1% of the total energy
charges;(II)where the recorded demand exceeds 112KW, for every KW or part
thereof in excess of sanctioned demand -\- for the first two occurrences, at
the rate of 1 % of the charges for electricity supplied upto 112 KW;\- and
1.5% for every KW or part thereof over and above 112KW,\- and thereafter, that
is, the third and subsequent occurrences at the rate of three per cent for
every KW or part thereof over and above 112KW.(III)where the recorded demand
exceeds the sanctioned demand for the second and subsequent times -(A)in case
the recorded demand has not exceeded 112 KW, the existing load sanction shall,
after intimation to the consumer, be revised within one month of the second
occurrence to the level of recorded demand and all the relevant charges
applicable to the additional load shall be included in the next bill;(B)in
case the recorded demand has exceeded 112 KW, the existing load sanction
shall, after intimation to the consumer, be revised within one month of the
second occurrence, to the level of 112 KW and all relevant charges applicable
to the additional load shall be included in the next bill; if, however, the
recorded demand has exceeded 112KW for the third or more number of times, it
is open to the consumer to opt for HT service.(iii)in the case of temporary
supply, the excess demand charges shall be the difference between the minimum
charge for temporary supply computed at the rate notified, for a back period
of six months or date of supply whichever is lesser, and the corresponding
current consumption charges already recovered from the consumer.(iv)[ No
addition or reduction of load in case of LT service and no addition or
reduction of demand in case of HT service, may be sanctioned unless the
outstanding dues in the same service connection had been paid.] [Inserted by
Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-1 dated 22.11.2005
(w.e.f.7.12.2005).](3)Excess contracted load charge: These charges are
applicable to the subsidised category of agricultural service connections,
which need to be regulated with a view to -(i)comply with the contracted load
until the cross subsidy from other sources are eliminated and a viable tariff
is implemented for agricultural services;(ii)comply with the directives of the
Government towards restriction on exploitation of ground water for irrigation
and environmental constraints.Accordingly, special provisions have been made
in this Code in relation to agricultural service connections as below and they
shall remain in force until cross subsidy from other sources / categories are
eliminated.(a)No electric motor shall be used in agricultural service
connections without its manufacturer's name plate indicating its rating/
capacity permanently affixed on it.(b)[ If, at the time of effecting service
connections under Agricultural category, it is found that the assessed
capacity is in excess of the capacity applied for by the consumer, the
Engineer shall refuse to effect supply. If the intending consumer challenges
the decision regarding the assessed capacity of the motor made by the
Engineer, he may make an appeal to the next higher officer, furnishing
certificate regarding capacity of motor issued by Government /Government
Laboratory/any agency accredited/approved by Bureau of Energy Efficiency. The
decision of the next higher officer shall be final and binding on the
consumer.] [[Substituted by Commission's Notification No TNERC/SC/7-4 dated
25.5.2007, (w.e.f. 13.6.2007) which before substitution stood as under:'(b) If
at the time of effecting service connections under agricultural category, it
is found that the assessed capacity is in excess of the capacity applied for
by the consumer, the engineer shall refuse to effect supply. If the intending
consumer challenges the decision regarding the assessed capacity of the motor
made by the engineer, he may make an appeal to the next higher officer,
furnishing certificate regarding capacity of motor issued by any agency
acceptable to the licensee. The decision of the next higher officer shall be
final and binding on the consumer.]](c)If during periodical check or
inspection of an existing agricultural service connection by the engineer, it
is found that the name plate of any motor does not show the correct capacity
of the motor or filename plate is missing or the rating of such motor as
assessed by the engineer authorised in this behalf is in excess of the rating
noted in the Test Report, action shall be taken under this Code [to recover
the excess contracted load charges on the basis of the assessed capacity of
the motor] [Substituted by Commission's Notification No TNERC/SC/7-4
dated25.5.2007, (w.e.f.13.6.2007)].(d)[ If the existing consumer challenges
the decision regarding the assessed capacity of tire motor made by the
Engineer, a letter may be issued to the consumer asking him to test the motor
for its capacity at Government Laboratory or by any other agency accredited by
Bureau of Energy Efficiency at the cost of the consumer and produce the test
report of such Government Laboratory or agency to the officer concerned within
two months from the date of issue of such letter. However, after producing
such test report, the charges shall be adjusted to the certified load in the
subsequent Consumption Charge bills.] [[Substituted by Commission's
Notification No TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007, (w.e.f.13.6.2007) which before
substitution stood as under(d)If the existing consumer challenges the decision
regarding the assessed capacity of the motor made by the engineer, a letter
may be issued to the consumer asking him to test the motor for its capacity at
Government Laboratory or by any other agency acceptable to the licensee at the
cost of the consumer and produce the same to the officer concerned within two
months from the date of issue of such letter.]]The excess contracted load
charges for both metered and unmetered supply shall be sixty rupees per HP per
month prospectively and as long as the excess contracted load remains
connected.(4)Belated payment surcharge (BPSC). -(i)All bills are to be paid in
the case of HT consumers, within the due date specified in the bill and in the
case of LT consumers, within the due date and notice period specified in the
consumer meter card.(ii)[ (a) Where any HT consumer neglects to pay any bill
by the due date, he shall be liable to pay belated payment surcharge from the
day following the due date for payment. Where any LT consumer (except services
relating to Public lighting and water supply and other services belonging to
Local Bodies) neglects to pay any bill by the last day of the notice period,
he shall be liable to pay belated payment surcharge from the day following the
last day of the notice period. [[Substituted by Commission's Notification No
TNERC/SC/7-7 dated14.12.2007 (w.e.f.9.1.2008) before substitution it reads as
under:'(i) Where any HT consumer neglects to pay any bill by the due date, he
shall be liable to pay belated payment surcharge from the.day following the
due date for payment. Where any LT consumer neglects to pay any bill by the
last day of the notice period, he shall be liable to pay belated payment
surcharge from the day following the last day of the notice period. The
surcharge shall be for a minimum period of fifteen days and where the delay
exceeds fifteen days but does not exceed one month, it shall be for one whole
month and where the delay exceeds one month, it shall be for the number of
whole months and for any fraction of a month it shall be proportionate to the
number of days.]](b)Where the local bodies neglect / fail to pay any bills in
respect of LT services for Public Lighting and Public Water Works, and other
services of Local Bodies the belated payment surcharge shall be applicable for
the payments made beyond 60 days from the date of demand. In case of payment
made beyond 60 days from the date of demand, the belated payment surcharge
shall be payable from the day following the 60th day of demand.(c)The
surcharge shall be for a minimum period of fifteen days and where the delay
exceeds fifteen days but does not exceed one month, it shall be for the number
of whole months, and for any fraction of a month, it shall be proportionate to
the number of days.](iii)If the due date in the case of HT consumers and the
last day of the notice period in the case of LT consumers falls on a holiday,
the surcharge is payable from the day following the next working day.(iv)[ In
the case of LT Consumers (except Local Bodies) the surcharge shall be 1.5% per
month for the outstanding arrears towards the price of electricity supplied.
In respect of LT services belonging to Local Bodies, the surcharge shall be
0.5% per month for the outstanding arrears towards the price of electricity
supplied] [Substituted by Commission's Notification No TNERC/SC/7-7
dated14.12.2007 (w.e.f.9.1.2008)](v)[ In the case of HT consumers except Local
Bodies and Government Departments the surcharge shall be 1.5% per month for
the notice period. In the case of Local Bodies and Government Departments, the
surcharge shall be 1% per month for the notice period. [Substituted as per
Commission's Notification No TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007
(w.e.f.13.6.2007)]However for the consumers who are availing of extension of
time beyond the notice period up to the end of the due month, on an
application to the licensee, the BPSC shall be at 2% per month from the expiry
of the due date allowed for payment, for a full month irrespective of the
number of days delayed. When no extension of time is granted or the delay
continues after the expiry of the extended time, the surcharge shall be at
1.5% per month](vi)In case of sums other than price of electricity supplied
which are outstanding, surcharge shall be leviable at the discretion of the
licensee at a rate not exceeding 1.5 % per month.(vii)In the case of short
assessment included in a subsequent bill, surcharge shall accrue in the case
of HT consumers, after the due date for the payment of the subsequent bill
wherein the short assessment is included and in the case of LT consumers, it
shall accrue from the day following the last day of the notice period.(viii)In
the case of short assessment permitted to be payable in instalments, the
surcharge shall accrue only when there is default in the payment schedule and
the surcharge shall be worked out from the day following the day on which the
instalment fell due and shall be payable along with the amount of instalment
due.(ix)Where the service connection stands terminated, the amount of security
deposit and the interest accrued thereon shall first be adjusted against
belated payment surcharge and the remainder, if any, against other dues.(x)The
belated payment surcharge is payable only on any outstanding amount excluding
belated payment surcharge component.(xi)The belated payment surcharge shall
not be levied on electricity tax and electricity tax shall not be levied on
the belated payment surcharge.[Explanation. - In this regulation and other
regulations of this code, the reference to the expression 'HT Consumer' shall
be deemed to include a reference to the expression 'EHT consumer' also]
[Inserted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4/dated 25.5.2007
(w.e.f. 13.6.2007)].(5)Additional Security Deposit. -(i)The adequacy of
security deposit may be reviewed and re-fixed once in a year in case of HT
consumers and once in every two years in case of LT consumers taking into
account the interest due for credit. Such reviews shall be made in the month
of April / May. The rate of interest on the security deposit shall be on the
basis of the commission's directive to the licensees in this regard.(ii)The
adequacy of security deposit shall be based on the periodicity of billing for
the respective category.(a)For the categories of consumer under monthly
billing, the security deposit is equivalent to two times of the monthly
average of the electricity charges for the preceding twelve months prior to
April.(b)For the categories of consumer under bi-monthly billing, the security
deposit is equivalent to three times of the monthly average of the electricity
charges for the preceding twelve months.(c)For the categories of consumer
under half-yearly billing, the security deposit is equivalent to seven times
of the average charges per month.(iii)Interest at Bank rate or more as
specified by the Commission shall .be calculated and credited to the security
deposit accounts of the consumers at the beginning of every financial year
i.e. April and the credit available including the interest shall be informed
to each consumer before the end of June of every year.(iv)If available deposit
is less than the revised security deposit, the balance shall be collected as
additional security deposit either through a separate notice or by a distinct
entry in the consumer meter card for LT services. Thirty days notice period
shall be allowed for the payment. If the payment is not received within the
above period of thirty days, the service is liable for dis-
connection.(v)Where, on review, the amount of security deposit held is found
to be in excess of the requirement, the excess shall be adjusted against two
future demands for the electricity supplied. Where, after such adjustment in
future of two demands, there is balance to be refunded, the refund shall be
made by cheque before the due date for payment of the third demand.(vi)In the
event of the consumer failing to pay to the licensee any sum that may become
due for payment to the licensee on the dates fixed for payment thereof, the
licensee may, in addition to and without prejudice to the other rights of the
licensee, appropriate a part or whole of the security deposit and interest
thereon towards the sum due from the consumer.(6)Service /line, [structure and
equipments] [Inserted by Commission's Notification No TNERC/SC/7-4 dated
25.5.2007 (w.e.f.13.6.2007).] shifting charge.(1)[ The cost of shifting
service/line, structure and equipments shall be borne by the consumer. The
consumer shall pay the estimated cost of shifting in advance in full. The copy
of the estimate shall be given to the consumer. The shifting work will be
taken up only after the payment is made. [Substituted by Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-36 dated 01-07-2014.]The estimate will cover the
following:(i)Materials dismantled in the old site and reusable shall be used
in the new site as far as possible.(ii)10% of the present value of the
dismantled and reusable materials towards charges for dismantling and charges
for loading, unloading, transport to the new site/store.(iii)Cost of the new
materials required for the shifting work.(vi)Add 5% of the cost of new
materials towards loading, unloading and transport to new site.(v)Add 10% of
the present value of all the materials to be erected in the new site towards
erection charges.(vi)5% of the present value of retrievable scrap materials
towards transport charges.(vii)Due credit shall be given to the consumer /
applicant as below but however limited to the total estimated cost of new
work:(a)Book value/written down value subject to a minimum of 20% of the cost
of retrievable and reusable materials but not used in the new site.(b)Scrap
value on the retrievable but not reusable materials at not less than 10% of
its original value.(viii)After completion of the work, a revised estimate
shall be prepared with a copy to the consumer based on the actual cost of
materials, loading, unloading, transport and erection charges. If the original
estimate cost is more than the revised estimate, the balance shall be refunded
to the applicant/consumer within 3 months. If the original estimate cost is
less than the revised estimate, the difference shall be collected from the
applicant/consumer.](2)Temporary dismantling and re-erection or shifting of a
service connection within the same premises necessitated due to remodelling of
premises will be carried out on payment of the required charges for the
same.(3)Shifting of an existing service connection involving change in door
number or sub-door number or survey field number, shall be considered as a new
service connection only.No shifting of an existing service connection is
permissible unless all arrears in the service connection are paid, if so
demanded by the licensee.(7)Name transfer charge. - [(i)] [Inserted by
Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4/dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f.
13.6.2007).] Every application for transfer of name consequent to the death of
the consumer shall be in Form 1 [in Appendix to this Code] [Inserted by
Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4/dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f.
13.6.2007).] accompanied by -(a)legal heirship certificate from the Tahsildar
concerned or proof of ownership such as local body tax receipts (latest);(b)no
objection certificate from other legal heirs, if any, (or) an indemnity bond
in Form 3 in Appendix to this Code on non-judicial stamp paper for a value of
Rs.80/- and a sworn-in affidavit and authenticated by a Notary Public or by a
Gazetted Officer to show the status of other legal heirs;(c)fresh application
with fee to be specified by the Commission and agreement form.(ii)[] [Inserted
by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4/dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f.
13.6.2007).] Every application for transfer of name, in other cases, shall be
in Forms 1 and 2 in Appendix to this Code accompanied by:(a)the document
supporting the transfer with an undertaking in Form 4 in Appendix to this
Code;(b)consent letter from the consumer for the transfer of the security
deposit [if it is not included in the document supporting the transfer]
[Inserted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4/ dated 25.5.2007
(w.e.f. 13.6.2007)]. Where no such consent letter can be produced, the
applicant shall pay fresh security deposit;(c)fresh application with fee to be
specified by the Commission and agreement form.Explanation-I. - The name
transfer is effected only for such services which are not under
disconnection.(8)Re-connection charge. - The licensee shall collect re-
connection charge from LT/HT consumers at the rates specified by the
Commission, from time to time.(9)Consumer meter card replacement charge. - The
licensee shall collect charges at the rate specified by the Commission for
replacement of consumer meter card, if lost or damaged. Wherever the space in
the card is used up, the replacement shall be free of cost.(10)Dishonoured
cheque service charge. - The licensee shall collect service charges as
specified by the Commission, from time to time, from the consumer, when a
cheque given by the consumer is returned by the Bank for any reason
whatsoever.(11)Meter related charges. - Meter rental charges shall be payable
by the consumer, unless the consumer elects to purchase a meter, in accordance
with the rates as the Commission may fix:, from time to time, for different
categories of consumers. The licensee shall, besides meter rent where payable,
collect charges towards changing of meters and boards, testing of meters,
testing of installations, inspection charges etc., at the rates specified by
the Commission, from time to time.(12)[ Application registration charge. - The
Licensee shall collect application registration charges from the applicants
for the following, at the rates specified by the Commission from time to
time:(a)Application for new HT/LT services.(b)Application for
addition/reduction of demand/load in respect of HT and LT
services.(c)Application for temporary service.(d)Application for conversion of
a service from L. T. to H. T. and vice versa(e)Application for shifting of
HT/LT services.(f)Application for shifting of lines/structures/equipments
under Deposit Contribution Works for LT/HT.(g)Application for change of
tariff.(h)Application for replacement of defective meters.](13)[ Excess demand
charge and excess energy charge during Restriction and Control of
supply:(i)The maximum demand charges for HT supply shall be based on the
actual recorded demand at the point of supply or at 90% of the demand quota as
fixed from time to time through restriction and control measures whichever is
higher. In case the maximum recorded demand is in excess of the quota fixed,
the demand in excess of the quota fixed shall be charged at rates specified by
the Commission from time to time.(ii)The energy consumption over and above the
energy quota fixed shall be charged at the rates specified by the Commission
from time to time in respect of such class of consumers upon whom the
restriction and control measures apply.(iii)The services which draw
electricity from TNEB Grid for using welding sets during the restricted hours
shall be charged at the rates specified by the Commission from time to time.]

### 6. Minimum charges.

\- The consumer shall pay to the licensee [minimum charges] [Substituted for
the expression 'a minimum charge' by Commission's Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-4
dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 13.6.2007)] in respect of every connection as detailed
below. The minimum monthly charges are payable even when no electricity was
consumed or supply disconnected by orders of Court or when the price of
electricity supplied is less than the minimum charges.(a)For the H.T. services
disconnected as per licensee's right to disconnect supply, the following
monthly minimum charges based on the KVA demand shall be collected: -(i)If the
disconnection is for the full month, then, 20% of the sanctioned demand.(ii)If
the disconnection is for part of a month, the actual recorded demand or such
percentage of sanctioned demand as declared by the Commission whichever is
higher.(b)For the H.T services disconnected on the request of the consumer,
the monthly minimum charges based on the KVA demand shall be the actual
recorded demand (when the disconnection is for part of a month) or such
percentage of sanctioned demand declared by the Commission whichever is
higher:Provided that where the licensee is prevented from supplying
electricity owing to cyclone, floods, storms, fire, strike or lockout in the
licensees' establishment or other occurrences beyond the control of the
licensee, or if the licensee is satisfied that the consumer has been prevented
from consuming electricity either in whole or in part for similar reasons, the
licensee may recover from the consumer [minimum charges] [Substituted for the
expression 'a minimum charge' by Commission's Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-4
dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f 13.6.2007)] at twenty per cent of the billable demand
or recorded demand whichever is higher besides charges for the actual
consumption of electricity:Provided further that where the consumer has been
prevented from consuming electricity, -(i)the consumer shall produce a
certificate from the Labour Officer to that effect, indicating the period of
lockout or strike or temporary closure and the date on which it was called
off;(ii)the consumer shall give prompt intimation of the commencement of the
lockout or strike so that the maximum demand meter can be reset. In the case
of temporary closure, the consumer shall give intimation of the closure. The
consumer shall give intimation to the licensee immediately after lifting of
the strike, lockout or temporary closure:Provided also that, in the case of
steel industries having more than one electric furnace in a HT service and
when one or more electric furnaces are under total strike / closure, then, the
benefit of billing on the actual recorded demand or the percentage as may be
notified by the Commission, from time to time, of the sanctioned demand less
the KVA load of the furnaces under total strike or closure whichever is higher
shall be given. This provision is not applicable when there is lockout.(c)for
the LT services disconnected as per the licensee's right to disconnect the
supply or at the request of the consumer to disconnect supply, the monthly
minimum charges shall be recovered by the licensee till the agreement is
terminated.

### 7. Installation of meter.

(1)Sub-section (1) of section 55 the Act provides for the use of meters and
reads as "No license supply electricity, after the expiry of two years from
the appointed date, except through installation of a correct meter in
accordance with the regulations to be made in this behalf by the
Authority:Provided that the licensee may require the consumer to give hie
security for the price of a meter and enter into an agreement for the hire
thereof, unless the consumer elects to purchase a meter:Provided further that
the State Commission may, by notification, extend the said period of two years
for a class or classes of personsor for such area as may be specified in the
notification".(2)[ All new service connections shall be extended with meters
only. For all new LT service connections, the Licensee shall install meters
with demand recording facility.] [Substituted by Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-36 dated 01-07-2014.](3)Unless the consumer elects to purchase his
own meter, the licensee shall provide meter of high quality, high precision
and accuracy and may require the consumer to give adequate security for the
price of the meter and pay the hire charges therefor. Where the consumer
elects to purchase his own meter, die licensee shall ensure that such meter is
of high quality, high precision and accuracy and shall arrange to recalibrate
the same at consumer cost.(4)The meter shall, ordinarily, be installed at the
point of entry to the consumer's premises at a suitable and easily accessible
place as the engineer may decide. After installation, the security seals shall
be affixed in the presence of the consumer or his representative on the meter
box cover, current transformer chamber, terminal cover of the meter, test
block, cut outs, air-break switch and gate and such other part of die)
installation as the licensee may decide. The consumer shall be responsible to
ensure that the meter and the seals are not stolen, damaged or tampered with.
The consumer shall run his wiring from such point of supply.(5)The quantity of
electricity recorded by such meter shall be taken as the quantity actually
supplied by the licensee.(6)The licensee will provide the security seals in
the meter box cover and the current transformer chamber after testing the
meter. The seals on the terminal cover of meter (Low Tension and High
Tension), test-block, metering set, meter box, cutouts, air-break switch and
gate and other seals as desired by the licensee will be provided at site in
the presence of the consumer or his representative, who shall satisfy himself
that all the seals including the security seals are intact and the [meter]
[Substituted for 'meter disc' by Commission's Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-4
dated 25.5.2007, w.e.f. 13.6.2007.] is functional. It is the responsibility of
the consumer to ensure that the seals are not damaged or tampered with.(7)[
All HT services shall be provided with HT metering. Wherever existing metering
of the High Tension service connection is on the Low Tension side i.e. on the
secondary side of the Transformer:(i)The average losses in the transformer
shall be calculated as follows and added to the energy consumption indicated
by the meter: -

| Average loss=| 720 x 1.0 x C100| Units per month|  
---  
  
where C = KVA rating of the transformer(ii)The transformer loss arrived at by
the above formula shall be added to the energy consumption, even when the
recorded energy consumption is nil.(iii)1 % of the transformer capacity for
transformer above 63 KVA will be added to the recorded maximum demand on the
Low Tension side to arrive at the equivalent High Tension demand.](8)At
periodical intervals, the meters shall be recalibrated and \ standardised by
means of standard instruments by the licensee. In respect of high tension
service connections, however, such recalibration will be done in the presence
of the consumer's electrical engineer or his representative, if the consumer
so desires. If the meter is found defective/ incorrect, the adjustments in
bills shall be made for error beyond permissible limits as laid down in the
relevant rules made under the Act.[The instrument transformers shall be tested
for accuracy periodically as specified in the Central Electricity Authority
(Installation and Operation of Meters) Regulations, 2006 and its amendment
regulations.] [Inserted by Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-36 dated
01-07-2014.](9)If the consumer considers that the meter is defective, he may
apply to the licensee to have a special test carried out on the meter at any
time and the cost of such a test shall be borne by the licensee or the
consumer accordingly as the meter is found defective or correct as a result of
such a test. [The aforementioned special test for the disputed energy meters
including the suspected/defective meters shall be carried out in the Third
Party testing laboratory accredited by National Accreditation Board for
Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and till such time the Third Party
Meter Testing Arrangement is established, the licensee shall have the special
test conducted by the Chief Electrical Inspector to Government of Tamil Nadu]
[Inserted by Commission's Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f.
13.6.2007).]. The meter shall be deemed to be correct if the limits of error
do not exceed those laid down in the relevant rules made under the Act. The
consumer may also be allowed to install a check meter after recalibration by
the licensee. Such check meter shall be of high quality, high precision and
high accuracy and sealed by the licensee. Whenever the licensee's meter
becomes defective, the check meter reading may be taken for billing.(10)The
procedure to be followed for replacement of defective, damaged / burnt meter
shall be as follows: -(i)It is the responsibility of the licensee to replace
all defective meters [belonging to the licensee] [Inserted by Commission's
Notification No.TN ERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f 13.6.2007).] at his
cost.(ii)Since the safe custody of the meter is the consumer's responsibility,
replacement of meter due to damages shall be at the cost of consumer.(iii)The
cost of replacement for burnt meters shall be met by the licensee unless it is
proved otherwise that the burning out is due to the fault of the
consumer.(iv)When the meter is owned by the consumer and becomes defective /
damaged or when the meter is burnt due to the fault of the consumer, it is the
responsibility of the consumer to replace the meter by a healthy one, if he
elects to continue to have his own meter. Otherwise, the licensee shall
replace the meter and enter into an agreement for hire and collect the
specified deposits.

### 8. Meter reading, billing and intervals.

\- [(1) In the case of Low Tension service connections, the Licensee with the
approval of the Commission shall decide the periodicity of meter readings,
collection dates, modes etc. However, in the case of temporary supply, the
meter reading shall be taken at the end of the period in case sanction is for
less than a month and once in a month in case sanction is for a period more
than a month. The Licensee shall have access to the consumer's premises at all
reasonable hours for the purpose of such reading as per the provisions
contained in section 163 of Act. The format of the meter cards containing all
basic information to be made available to the consumer shall be got approved
by the Commission. It is the responsibility of the Licensee to ensure that the
details in the respective meter cards are entered without omission.]
[Substituted by Commission Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-22 dated 21.2.2011
(w.e.f. 23.3.2011).](2)In the case of high tension service connections, the
licensee shall, within four days after the expiry of each billing month, cause
to be delivered to every consumer a bill of charges stating the amount payable
by the consumer in connection with supply of electricity by the licensee.[***]
[Omitted by Commission Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-22 dated 21.2.2011 (w.e.f.
23.3.2011).](4)In case of LT services, the meter readings of last digit upto
and inclusive of five units shall be rounded off to the lower multiple often
units and the meter readings of last digit from six to nine units shall be
rounded off to the higher multiple often units.(5)In case of LT services,
after taking the meter readings, the particulars of meter readings, energy
consumption and charges payable will be incorporated in the consumer meter
card.(6)Payment for energy supplied shall be made by the consumer according to
the meter readings referred to above and on delivery of a bill therefor in the
case of high tension consumers and incorporation of current consumption
charges in the consumer meter card or assessment slip in the case of low
tension consumers.(7)The total of current consumption charges and other
miscellaneous charges etc. in a bill / assessment shall be rounded off to the
nearest rupee.(8)In respect of high tension service connections, the employee
of the licensee, in the presence of the consumer or his representative, will
take the meter readings. The signature of the consumer or his representative
will be taken in the meter card in token of being present at the time of
taking the reading. If the consumer or his representative refuses to be
present or refuses to sign in the meter card, the fact will be recorded. The
meter readings and consumption will nevertheless be entered in the meter
card.(9)In respect of captive generation, including windmill, the licensee
shall ensure provision of a meter card to enter the generation and consumption
details. The employee of the licensee, in the presence of the [representative
of the genera tor/consumer] [Substituted for 'consumer or his representative'
by Commission's Notification Ni. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007
(w.e.f.13.6.2007).], will take the meter readings. The signature of the
)[representative of the generator/consumer] [Substitutedfor the words
'consumer or his representative' by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4
dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f.13.6.2007).], will be taken in the meter card in token
of being present at the time of taking the reading. If the [representative of
the generator/consumer] [Substitutedfor the words 'consumer or his
representative' by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007
(w.e.f. 13.6.2007)] refuses to be present or refuses to sign in the meter
card, the fact will be recorded. The meter readings and consumption will
nevertheless be entered in the meter card.

### 9. Meter readings when there is changes in sanctioned demand, etc.

(1)Whenever there is change in the sanctioned demand, the change shall be
effected, as far as possible, to coincide with the next meter reading. If,
however, it is not possible so to do, the meter shall be reset and the maximum
demand charges shall be billed proportionately for the respective
periods.(2)Whenever a tariff change is to be effected in a service connection,
such change shall be effected only after obtaining a Revised Test Report (RTR)
and the reading taken shall be conclusive proof of the [electricity consigned
till the change of tariff] [Substituted for the expression 'electricity
supplied' by Commission's Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-4 J dated25.5.2007 (w.ef.
13.6.2007).].

### 10. Inaccessibility of meter for reading.

(1)When a low tension consumer leaves his installation connected to the
licensee's mains but makes it inaccessible for reading by the employees of the
licensee, the consumer shall, for the first occasion of such inaccessibility,
be charged provisionally on the basis of the amount charged on the previous
assessment. The employee of the licensee will leave an assessment slip in the
premises, wherever possible.(2)[ If, on the next occasion, the meter is
accessible for reading, the consumer will be charged for the actual
consumption less the amount already charged, subject to the minimum monthly
charges for both the periods. If, on the other hand, the meter remains
inaccessible on the second occasion also, the consumer will be served with a
48 hours notice to open his premises at a fixed time and date to enable an
employee of the licensee to read the meter. In the said 48 hours notice, the
consumer shall be also be informed that the supply to his premises will be
disconnected as per Section 163(3) of the Electricity Act, 2003. If the meter
is now made accessible for reading, the consumer will be charged the actual
consumption less the provisional amount charged and paid for the first period
of inaccessibility subject to the minimum monthly charges for both the
periods. If the meter remains inaccessible even after the 48 hours notice, the
supply to the premises will be disconnected and for that period also
provisional amount as in the case of previous occasion will be charged.]
[Substituted by Commissions Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-22 dated21.2.2011
(w.e.f. 23.3.2011).](3)If the meter is made accessible, subsequent to the
disconnection, for purpose of reading the meter and settling accounts or for
re-connection of the service, as the case may be, the consumer will be barged
the actual consumption subject to the minimum monthly charges payable for both
periods less the two provisional amounts levied and paid for the two periods
of inaccessibility. Re-connection charges, if any, shall also be levied. Any
excess amount collected will be adjusted in future current consumption
charges.(4)[ When a high tension consumer leaves his installation connected to
the licensee's mains but makes the meter inaccessible for reading by the
employees of the licensee, the employees of the licensee will serve the
consumer with a 48 hours notice to open his premises for reading of the meter
at a fixed time. If the meter is now made available for reading, the readings
will be taken. In the said 48 hours notice, the consumer shall be also be
informed that the supply to his premises will be disconnected as per Section
163(3) of the Electricity Act, 2003. If the meter remains inaccessible even
after the 48 hours notice, the supply to the premises will be disconnected and
the consumer will be charged provisionally on the basis of the amount charged
for the previous month. If the meter is made accessible subsequent to the
disconnection, the consumer will be charged the actual consumption less the
provisional amount charged subject to minimum monthly charges. All re-
connections shall attract re-connection charges over and above the other
charges as are applicable.] [Substituted by Commissions Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-22 dated 21.2.2011 (w.e.f. 23.3.201l).](5)Serving of notices to the
consumers with regard to the provisions under the sections above, can be
executed by pasting the same at a conspicuous place at the premises.

### 11. Assessment of billing in cases where there is no meter or meter is
defective.

(1)Where supply to the consumer is given without a meter or where the meter
fixed is found defective or to have ceased to function and no theft of energy
or violation is suspected, the quantity of electricity supplied during the
period when the meter was not installed or the meter installed was defective,
shall be assessed as mentioned hereunder.(2)The quantity of electricity
supplied during the period in questions shall be determined by taking the
average of the electricity supplied during the preceding four months in
respect of both high tension service connections end low tension service
connections, provided that the conditions in regard to use of electricity
during the said four months were not different from those which prevailed
during the period in question.(3)In respect of high tension service
connections, where the meter fixed for measuring the maximum demand becomes
defective, the maximum demand shall be assessed by computation on the basis of
the average of the recorded demand during the previous four months.(4)Where
the meter becomes defective immediately after the service connection is
effected, the quantum of electricity supplied during the period in question is
to be determined by taking the average of the electricity supplied during the
succeeding four months period after installation of a correct meter, provided
the conditions in regard to the use of electricity in respect of such low
tension service connection are not different. The consumer shall be charged
monthly minimum provisionally for defective period and after assessment the
actual charges will be recovered after adjusting the amount collected
provisionally.(5)If the conditions in regard to the use of electricity during
the periods as mentioned above were different, assessment shall be made on the
basis of any consecutive four months period during the preceding twelve months
when the conditions of working were similar to those in the period covered by
the billing.(6)Where it is not possible to select a set of four months, the
quantity of electricity supplied will be assessed in the case of low tension
service connections by the engineer in charge of the distribution and in the
case of high tension service connections by the next higher level officer on
the basis of the connected load and the hours of usage of electricity by the
consumer.(7)In case the consumer does not agree with the assessment made by
the engineer or the higher level officer, as the case may be the matter may be
referred to the next higher level officer of the licensee In case the consumer
is still not satisfied, the consumer is at liberty to approach the respective
Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum of the licensee.

### 12. Errors in billing.

(1)In the event of any clerical errors or mistakes in the amount levied,
demanded or charged by the licensee, the licensee will have the right to
demand an additional amount in case of undercharging and the consumer will
have the right to get refund of the excess amount in the case of
overcharging.(2)Where it is found that the consumer has been over-charged, the
excess amount paid in such cases will be adjusted against future current
consumption charges. If, even after such adjustment against future current
consumption charges for two assessment periods, there is still a balance to be
refunded, the refund will be made by cheque.(3)Wherever the licensee receive
complaints from consumers that there is error in billing, etc., the licensee
shall resolve such disputes regarding quantum of commercial transaction
inVolved within the due date for payment, provided the complaint is lodged
three days prior to the due date for payment. Such of those complaints
received during the last three days period shall be resolved before the next
billing along with refunds/adjustments, if any. However, the consumer shall
not, on the plea of incorrectness of the charges, withhold any portion of the
charges.

### 13. Servicing of bills.

(1)For the HT services, bills shall normally be sent by post or by hand
delivery but the licensee takes no responsibility for loss in transit. The
consumer should notify the concerned office of the licensee, if no bill or
assessment is received. Non-receipt of the bills / assessments will not
entitle the consumer to delay payment of the charges beyond the due date. For
LT services, entry in consumer meter card shall be the bill of demand and
there will be no separate issue of bill.(2)For any arrears other than the
regular current consumption bill, it is the licensee's obligation to inform
the consumer by a separate communication with details.

### 14. Due dates and notice periods.

(1)The licensee shall provide the following minimum days with regard to due
dates, notice period for payment of tariff related electricity charges:
-(a)For LT services, the due date shall be not less than 5 days from the date
of entry in the consumer meter card. 15 days clear notice period shall be
allowed prior to disconnection for non-payment. Belated payment surcharge
shall not be levied for LT services during the notice period.(b)For HT
services, the due date shall be not less than 7 days from the date of billing.
If the last day of the due date happens to be a holiday, the due date shall be
extended to till the next working day. 15 days clear notice period shall be
allowed prior to disconnection for non-payment. [In case the last day of the
notice period happens to be a holiday, the period of notice will get extended
and the last day for payment to avoid disconnection will be the next working
day.] [Inserted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007
(w.e.f.13.6.2007).] Belated payment surcharge shall be levied for HT services
during the notice period as specified in this Code.(2)In the case of low
tension consumers who do not pay their current consumption charges as per the
periods specified by the licensee in the consumer meter card, the printed
notice period in the consumer meter card shall be construed as the notice to
the consumer. Payments may also be accepted during the notice period. If the
last day included in the notice period happens to be a holiday, the period of
notice will get extended and the last day for payment to avoid disconnection
will be the next working day.(3)Supply to such low tension consumers as
specified above is liable to be disconnected after the expiry of the notice
period.(4)Bills rendered to high tension consumers and the charges
incorporated in the consumer meter cards of low tension consumers shall be
paid as stipulated and are subject to BPSC, for delayed payment as stipulated
in this Code.(5)If the amount of any bill remains unpaid beyond the period
specified, the licensee may also, without prejudice to any of its rights under
the agreement entered into by the consumer with the licensee, order supply of
electricity to the consumer to be discontinued forthwith without further
notice and keep the service connection disconnected until full payment for all
obligations pending and the charge for the work of disconnection and re-
connection has been paid. Such discontinuance of supply of electricity shall
not relieve the consumer of his liability to pay the minimum monthly charges
nor shall such discontinuance affect my right, claim, demand or power which
may have accrued to the licensee hereunder.

### 15. Mode of payment.

(1)The licensee shall issue receipts for every recovery or payment from the
consumers.(2)[ All High Tension bills, including those on account of
miscellaneous charges, shall be paid within the due date fixed by the Licensee
from the date of the bill. The High Tension Consumer shall pay the bills in
cash or by demand draft on local bank or cheque drawn on a bank at the
headquarters of the designated authority of the distribution licensee or
through electronic payment as stipulated by the distribution licensee. Payment
for amounts Exceeding Rs.2,000/- (Rupees two thousand only) is preferred by
DD/cheque. Depending on the circumstances, the designated authority of lie
distribution licensee shall, however, accept cash payments also and advise the
consumer for future remittances by DD / cheque. In case the cheque is
dishonored for any reason whatsoever, the high tension consumer will be
required to pay the High Tension bills in cash or by demand draft thereafter.
If the payment is not received within fifteen days (notice period) from the
expiry of the due date allowed for payment, the supply will be disconnected.
However, the consumer may be allowed extension of time to make payment beyond
the expiry of the notice period allowed for payment, on an application made to
the designated authority of the distribution licensee, subject to the levy of
BPSC as specified in this Code.] [Substituted by Commission Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-22 dated 21.2.2011 (w.e.f. 23.3.2011).](3)[ Low Tension Consumers
shall pay the amount due in cash or by money order or by demand draft on local
bank, or by Cheque dated on a bank situated in the place where the
Distribution Section Office is located or through electronic payment or
collection through bank's branch counters or post office etc. as stipulated by
the distribution licensee. However, local bodies and Railways may issue Cheque
on the banks situated in the place of their office and the Licensee may claim
the collection charges, if any, from such consumers. Payment for amounts
exceeding Rs.2000/- (Rupees two thousand only) is preferred by DD/ Cheque.
Depending on the circumstances, the designated authority of the distribution
licensee] [Substituted by Commissions Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-22 dated
21.2.2011 (w.e.f. 23.3.2011).] shall however accept cash payments also and
advise the consumer for future remittances by DD / Cheque.(4)[ In case the
Cheque issued by a consumer is dishonored for any reason whatsoever, the Low
Tension Consumer will be required to pay thereafter the amount due by
cash/money order/demand draft only. Such consumers shall pay service charges
for dishonor of cheque as stipulated by the Commission. The Licensee shall
have the powers to accord approval for restoring the Cheque facility for
payment by the consumers after watching the performance of the consumers in
regard to settlement of current consumption charges at least for the last
three consecutive billing periods in respect of LT consumers and three months
period in respect of HT consumers. The Licensee shall have the powers for
restoration of cheque payment facility upto the fourth occasion after watching
the performance of the consumers in regard to subsequent settlement of
charges. This concession of restoration of cheque payment facility shall not
be given thereafter for a service connection. The consumers who request for
restoration of cheque payment facility shall pay charges as follows:(a)Low
Tension Consumers - Rs.300/-(b)High Tension Consumers - Rs.1000/-.]

### 16. Option to pay charges in advance.

\- The consumers who opt for depositing electricity charges in advance shall
be permitted to do so. Such deposits shall be recorded in the consumer meter
card.

### 17. Agreement with respect to supply: Issues on recovery of charges.

(1)Every consumer shall pay to the licensee, from the date of commencement of
supply till the agreement is terminated, security deposit, minimum monthly
charges, fixed charges, if any, and other charges as provided in the tariff
orders, this Code and any other orders in this regard by the Commission, from
time to time. However, any consumer, who has not availed of reconnection even
after the expiry of termination of agreement period, the monthly minimum
charges [shall be payable upto the date of termination of such agreement.]
[Substituted for the expression 'may be limited to the date of disconnection'
by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f.
13.6.2007).](2)Notwithstanding the termination of the agreement, the consumer
shall be liable to pay the arrears of current consumption charges or any other
sum due to the licensee on the date of disconnection and meter rent, if any,
upto the date of termination of the agreement and Belated Payment Surcharge
(BPSC) upto the date of payment.(3)The licensee may require the consumer, who,
at any time during the currency of the agreement, intends to sell or otherwise
dispose of or lease out in whole or in part of the premises or business to
which supply is given or has been contracted for, to give three months' notice
of his intention to the [designated authority of the distribution licensee]
[Substituted for the expression 'Engineer of the Licensee' as per Commission's
Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 13.6.2007).] and clear
all dues upto the date of sale / disposal / lease. In the case of such notice,
the agreement in so far as the consumer is concerned, will cease to operate
with effect from the date specified in such notice, but without prejudice to
any claim or right which may have accrued to the parties thereunder.(4)If the
consumer fails to give advance intimation as aforementioned of his intention
to sell or lease out or otherwise dispose of the properties or business to
which supply is given or contracted for, the licensee shall have the right to
recover the charges for consumption and other charges due to the licensee
under the agreement even beyond the date of sale or lease out or otherwise
disposal of the properties or business.(5)If a service connection remains
disconnected for a period of three months for non-payment of dues to the
licensee, the licensee shall issue a notice requiring the consumer to get
supply restored within three months from the date of receipt of such a notice
and intimating him that failure to avail supply within that period will result
in termination of the agreement. After the expiry of notice period of three
months, the agreement shall stand terminated.(6)[ ***] [Inserted by
Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-3 dated 10.4.2007 (w.e.f 25.4.2007)
later omitted by Commission's Notification No.TNERC/SC/7-12 dated 27.02.2009
(w.e.f. 1.4.2009).](7)[ The licensee shall on receipt of the notice referred
to in sub - regulation (3) make such adjustment of the dues due to him from
the consumer as may be necessary to clear the dues from the consumer against
the security deposit or additional security deposit or any other deposit made
by the consumer, and after making such adjustment, refund the balance deposit,
if any, to the consumer within three months from the date of expiry of the
notice period referred to in sub-regulation (3).] [Inserted by Commission's
Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-6 dated 3.12.2007 (w.e.f. 19.12.2007)](8)[ Where
any consumer has more than one service connection, if he defaults in the
payment of dues relating to any one of the service connections, the licensee
may cause other service connections in the name of the consumer to be
disconnected on issuing proper notice till all the arrears due for all the
service connections are paid, notwithstanding the fact that the service
connections are covered under separate agreements.] [Inserted by Commissions
Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-25 dated 18.3.2011]In case of service connections
in a premises, which have been disconnected / dismantled for defaults in
payment of dues whatsoever and if such service connections are to be
reconnected or new service connections are to be obtained by other persons in
such premises either by purchase or transfer or lease basis, the Distribution
Licensee shall reconnect such service connections or effect new service
connections, as the case may be, in such premises only after payment of dues
attributed to such premises by the applicant:Provided that in case such
premises have legally been sub-divided, the outstanding dues attributed to
such premises shall be divided in proportion to the area covered by that sub-
division. A new service connection to any of such sub-divided premises shall
be given only after the share of outstanding dues attributed to such sub-
divided premises, is duly paid by the applicant. The Distribution Licensee
shall not refuse connection to an applicant of such sub-divided premises only
on the ground that, dues attributed to the other portion(s) of such sub-
divided premises have not been paid, nor shall the licensee demand record of
last paid bills of such other portion(s) from such applicants.(b)The
authorised officer of the licensee may permit such applicant to pay the
outstanding dues in instalments and to avail the service on payment of 40% of
the total arrears outstanding including BPSC in addition to the charges for
reconnection of such service connections or effecting new service connections.
The balance 60% of the outstanding dues shall be collected in 10 monthly
instalments.(c)In case an intending buyer of a premises requests for the
details of electricity charges due from the owner / occupier of the premises
to the distribution licensee, the distribution licensee shall provide such
details on payment of the charges as stipulated in the order of the Commission
on non-tariff related miscellaneous charges for the time being in force.

### 18. Consumer grievance Redressal.

\- All grievances of the consumers, relating to the provisions under
regulations (3) to (17) of this Code shall be referred by the consumer to the
respective Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum [constituted under the Act]
[Inserted bit Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007
(w.e.f. 13.6.2007).].

### 19. Unauthorised use of electricity - Investigation and enforcement
provisions.

\- Section 126 of the Act deals with the provisions for investigation and
enforcement in cases of unauthorised use of electricity and reads as
follows:Assessment: (1) If on an inspection of any place or premises or after
inspection of the equipments, gadgets, machines, devices found connected or
used, or after inspection of records maintained by any person, the assessing
officer comes to the conclusion that such person is indulging in unauthorised
use of electricity, he shall provisionally assess to the best of his judgment
the electricity charges payable by such person or by any other person
benefited by such use.(2)The order of provisional assessment shall be served
upon the person in occupation or possession or in charge of the place of
premises in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)[ The person, on whom an order
has been served under sub-section (2), shall be entitled to file objections,
if any, against the provisional assessment before the assessing officer, who
shall, after affording a reasonable opportunity of hearing to such person,
pass a final order of assessment within thirty days from the date of service
of such order of provisional assessment of the electricity charges payable by
such person] [[Substituted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-15
dated 09.10.2009 (w.e.f. 15.6.2007)(3)The person, on whom a notice has been
served under sub-section (2), shall be entitled to file objections, if any,
against the provisional assessment before the assessing officer, who may,
after affording a reasonable opportunity of hearing to such person, pass a
final order of assessment of the electricity charges payable by such
person.]].(4)Any person served with the order of provisional assessment may,
accept such assessment and deposit the assessed amount with the licensee
within seven days of service of such provisional assessment order upon
him:[***] [[Omitted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-15 dated
09.10.2009 (w.e.f. 15.6.2007), before omission stood as under:'Provided that
in case the person deposits the assessed amount, he shall not be subjected to
any further liability or any action by any authority whatsoever.]][(5) If the
assessing officer reaches to the conclusion that unauthorized use of
electricity has taken place, the assessment shall be made for the entire
period during which such unauthorized use of electricity has taken place and
if, however, the period during which such unauthorized use of electricity has
taken place cannot be ascertained, such period shall be limited to a period of
twelve months immediately preceding the date of inspection] [[Substituted by
Commission's Notification No. TNERC./SC./7-15 dated 09.10.2009 (w.e.f.
15.6.2007) before substitution it was as under:'(5) If the assessing officer
reaches to the conclusion that unauthorized use of electricity has taken
place, it shall be presumed that such unauthorized use of electricity was
continuing for a period of three months immediately preceding the date of
inspection in case of domestic and agricultural services and for a period of
six months immediately preceding the date of inspection for all other
categories of services, unless the onus is rebutted by the person, occupier or
possessor of such premises or place.]].(6)The assessment under this section
shall be made at a rate equal to [twice] [Substituted for the expression 'one-
and-half times' by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/715 dated09.10.2009
(w.e.f.15.6.2007).] the tariff applicable for the relevant category of
services specified in sub-section (5).Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section:(a)"assessing officer" means an officer of a State Government or Board
or licensee, as the case may be, designated as such by the State
Government;(b)"unauthorised use of electricity" means the usage of electricity
-(i)by any artificial means; or(ii)by a means not authorised by the concerned
person or authority or licensee; or(iii)through a tampered meter; or(iv)[ for
the purpose other than for which the usage of electricity was authorised; or
[Substituted for the expression 'for the purpose other than for which the
usage of electricity was authorised' by Commission's Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-15 dated 09.10.2009 (w.e.f. 15.6.2007).](v)for the premises or
areas other than those for which the supply of electricity was authorised]

### 19A. [ Procedure for disconnection of supply of electricity and removal of
the unauthorized usage of electricity. [Inserted by Commission's Notification
No. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 01.09.2004).]

(1)An assessing officer mentioned under section 126 of the Act, may either suo
motu or on receipt of reliable information regarding unauthorized use of
electricity in any premises conduct inspection of such premises.(2)The
assessing officer shall prepare a report giving details such as connected
load,condition of seals, working of meter and record any irregularity
noticed/unauthorized use of electricity found.(3)The report referred to in
sub-regulation (2) shall clearly indicate whether conclusive evidence
substantiating the fact that unauthorized use of electricity was found or not.
The details of such evidence should be recorded in the report.(4)In case of
suspected unauthorised use of electricity, provisional assessment order shall
be issued in the manner prescribed under the rules made by the State
Government under section 126 (2) of the Act and final assessment order shall
be issued by the assessment officer by following the procedure stipulated in
section 126 of the Act. In respect of a tariff where different rates are
adopted based on the slabs of consumption, the highest tariff rate specified
in the tariff structure for the relevant category of service may be
adopted.(5)If the person does not deposit the assessed amount with the
licensee concerned as stipulated under sub-section (4) of section 126 of the
Act, the licensee concerned may proceed to recover such assessed amount and
take such further action as is permitted under the Act.(6)The enforcement
provisions of the Act and the procedures given in this code shall be followed
to recover the assessed amount from the person. In case of default in payment
of the assessed amount, including default in payment of any of the installment
permitted by the licensee concerned and agreed by the person, the licensee
concerned may, after giving a fifteen days' notice in writing disconnect the
supply of electricity.(7)The person shall remove the cause of unauthorized use
immediately after its detection and give a written intimation to the licensee
concerned. The licensee concerned shall check the claim of the person about
the removal of the cause of unauthorized use of electricity, verified to his
satisfaction. Failure of the person to remove the cause of unauthorized use
shall result in levy of charges on account of unauthorized use of electricity
till the cause of such unauthorised use of electricity is removed and verified
and recorded by the licensee concerned or the onus of allegation of
unauthorized use of electricity is rebutted by the person and accepted by the
licensee concerned.] [Substituted by Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-36 dated
01-07-2014.]

### 20. Appeal under section 127(1) of the Act.

(1)Every appeal petition made to the Appellate Authority prescribed under
section 127(1) of the Act shall be in Form 6 and shall be accompanied by a
demand draft for an amount of Rs.100/- (Rupees one hundred
only).(2)Verification of the Appeal Petition. -(a)Every appeal petition
referred to above shall be verified by an affidavit and every such affidavit
shall be in Form 7.(b)Every affidavit shall be drawn up in the first person
and shall state the full name, age, occupation and address of the deponent and
the capacity in which he is signing and shall be signed and sworn before a
person lawfully authorised to take and receive affidavits.(c)Every affidavit
shall clearly and separately indicate statements, which are true to the (i)
belief of the deponent, (ii) knowledge of the deponent, and (iii) information
received by the deponent.(d)Where any statement in the affidavit is stated to
be true to the information received by the deponent, the affidavit shall also
disclose the source of the information and a statement that the deponent
believes that information to be true.(3)After an appellate authority passes
orders on an appeal and when the appellant defaults in making payment of the
assessed amount, he, in addition to the assessed amount, shall be liable to
pay, on expiry of thirty days from the date of order, an amount of interest at
the rate of sixteen per cent per annum, compounded every six months.

## Chapter 3  
Disconnection and Restoration of Electric Supply

### 21. Disconnection of supply.

\- Section 56 of the Act with regard to disconnection of supply in default of
payment reads as follows:"(1) Where any person neglects to pay any charge for
electricity or any sum other than a charge for electricity due from him to a
licensee or the generating company in respect of supply, transmission or
distribution or wheeling of electricity to him, the licensee or the generating
company may, after giving not less than fifteen clear days notice in writing,
to such person and without prejudice to his rights to recover such charge or
other sum by suit, cut off the supply of electricity and for that purpose cut
or disconnect any electric supply line or other works being the property of
such licensee or the generating company through which electricity may have
been supplied, transmitted, distributed or wheeled and may discontinue the
supply until such charge or other sum, together with any expenses incurred by
him in cutting off and re-connecting the supply, are paid, but no
longer:Provided that the supply of electricity shall not be cut off if such
person deposits, under protest, -(a)an amount equal to the sum claimed from
him, or(b)the electricity charges due from him for each calculated on the
basis of average charge for electricity paid during the preceding six months,
whichever is less, pending disposal of any dispute between him
licensee.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time
being in force, no sum due from any consumer, under this section shall be
recoverable after the period of two years from the date such sum became first
due unless such sum has been shown continuous as recoverable as arrears of
charges for electricity supplied and the licensee shall not cut off the supply
of the electricity."The provision of the Act as in sub-section (1) above are
in addition to and not in derogation of any other law for the time being in
force Accordingly, the licensee shall be entitled to disconnect the supply of
electricity subject to the provisions of Water (Prevention and Control of
Pollution) Act, 1974, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1981 and
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, etc.

### 22. Restoration of supply of electricity.

(1)The licensee shall restore the supply to the service immediately and in any
case not exceeding twelve hours [in the case of urban areas and twenty four
hours in the case of rural areas] [Inserted by Commission's Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-4 dated25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 13.6.2007).] on recovery of electricity
charges or such other sums together with any expenses incurred by the
licensees in cutting off and re-connecting the supply.(2)In the case of a
service connection remaining disconnected for six months or more, the
consumer's installation will be tested, levised test report obtained and the
testing charges collected from the consumer before the same is restored [Such
revised test report shall be signed by the consumer or legal owner or legal
occupant of the premises] [Inserted by Commission's Notification No.
TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 13.6.2007).].(3)To restore supply to a
high tension service connection which remains disconnected for one year or
more, approval of the competent authority with regard to safety and security
of the installation shall be obtained.(4)In the case of service connections,
which have been disconnected, the licensee shall have the power to allow
instalment payments of all arrears in deserving cases.(5)The licensee shall
restore the disconnected service before issue of termination of agreement
notice and also during the notice period for termination of agreement on
recovery of total arrears due till the date of restoration.(6)[ (i) When a
service connection remains disconnected for non payment of electricity charges
beyond the notice period of three months, if the consumer comes forward within
the period mentioned below to pay the actual dues and agrees to remit the
charges in clause (ii) below, the official authorized by the Licensee may
grant extension of time beyond the notice period and revoke the termination of
agreement provided that the lines feeding the service connection have not been
dismantled, so as to facilitate reconnection of the disconnected service.

Category | Period for reconnection of disconnected service  
---|---  
HT consumers | Within five years from the date of Disconnection  
LT Agricultural consumers | -do-  
Other LT consumers | Within two years from the date of Disconnection  
  
(ii)In accordance with sub-regulation (4), the authorized Officer of the
Licensee may permit such consumer to pay the outstanding in instalments and to
avail reconnection on receipt of 40% of the total arrears outstanding after
closing of account due to the licensee, which include:(a)Arrears on the date
of disconnection(b)Tariff minimum and meter rent for the period of six months
from the date of disconnection (including the notice period)(c)The applicable
BPSC / interest upto the date of payment.(d)The balance 60% of the amount
shall be collected in ten monthly instalments.(e)In addition to the above, the
full amount of Security Deposit adjusted while closing of account shall be
collected in one lumpsum before effecting new service
connection.][Explanation. - For the purpose of removal of doubts, it is hereby
declared that any tariff minimum collected by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
prior to the date of publication of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply
(Amendment) Code, 2006 in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, that is to say
prior to 21st June 2006 on the basis of sub-regulation (6) as it stood before
the said amendment need not be refunded by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board.]
[Inserted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-2(l) dated20.9.2006
(w.e.f. 1.09.2004).](7)If the consumers of disconnected services come forward
for re-connection after 5 years in case of H.T. services and two years in case
of LT services from the date of disconnection, the licensee shall treat them
as new applicants and supply effected after recovering all charges applicable
to a new service connection and all other arrears with BPSC.(8)The facility of
payment in instalments will be made available to fee consumer on request. To
avail of this facility, the consumer shall execute an undertaking in Form 5 in
the Appendix to this Code.

## Chapter 4  
Tampering, Distress or Damage to Electrical Plant, Meters, Etc.

### 23.

The Act deals elaborately under sections 135 to 141 regarding the tampering,
distress, etc. Hence in this Code, for the sake of completeness and to provide
consolidated information to the consumers on electric supply, the relevant
provisions of the Act as well as procedure for assessment of the electricity
charges, disconnection of supply of electricity and removing the meter,
electric line, electric plant and other apparatus in case of theft of
electricity and measures to prevent diversion of electricity, theft or
unauthorized use of electricity or tampering, distress or damage to electrical
plant, electric lines or meter are set out below.(A)Tampering of meters and
theft of electricity. - Section 135 of the Act, which deals with theft of
electricity, reads as follows: -(1)[ Section 135 of the Act, which deals with
theft of electricity, reads as follows: [Substituted by Commission's
Notification No. TNERC./SC/7-15 dated 09.10.2009 (w.e.f.
15.06.2007).](1)Whoever, dishonestly, -(a)taps, makes or causes to be made any
connection with overhead, underground or under water lines or cables, or
service wires, or service facilities of a Licensee supplier as the case may
be; or(b)tampers a meter, installs or uses a tampered meter, current reversing
transformer, loop connection or any other device or method which interferes
with accurate or proper registration, calibration or metering of electric
current or otherwise results in a manner whereby electricity is stolen or
wasted; or(c)damages or destroys an electric meter, apparatus, equipment, or
wire or causes or allows any of them to be so damaged or destroyed as to
interfere with the proper or accurate metering of electricity.(d)uses
electricity through a tampered meter or(e)uses electricity for the purpose
other than for which the usage of electricity was authorised, so as to
abstract or consume or use electricity shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with both;Provided
that in a case where the load abstracted, consumed, or used or attempted
abstraction or attempted consumption or attempted use -(i)does not exceed 10
kilowatt, the fine imposed on first conviction shall not be less than three
times the financial gain on account of such theft of electricity and in the
event of second or subsequent conviction the fine imposed shall not be less
than six times the financial gain on(ii)exceeds 10 kilowatt, the fine imposed
on first conviction shall not be less than three times the financial gain on
account of such theft of electricity and in the event of second or subsequent
conviction, the sentence shall be imprisonment for a term not less than six
months, but which may extend to five years and with fine not less than six
times the financial gain on account of such theft of electricity:Provided
further that in the event of second and subsequent conviction of a person
where the load abstracted, consumed, or used or attempted abstraction or
attempted consumption or attempted use exceeds 10 kilowatt, such person shall
also be debarred from getting any supply of electricity for a period which
shall not be less than three months but may extend to two years and shall also
be debarred from getting supply of electricity for that period from any other
source or generating station:Provided also that if it is proved that any
artificial means or means not authorized by the Board or Licensee or supplier,
as the case may be exist for the abstraction, consumption or use of
electricity by the consumer, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is
proved, that any abstraction, consumption or use of electricity has been
dishonestly caused by such consumer.(1A)Without prejudice to the provisions of
this Act, the licensee or supplier, as the case may be, may, upon detection of
such theft of electricity, immediately disconnect the supply of
electricity:Provided that only such officer of the licensee or supplier, as
authorised for the purpose by the Appropriate Commission or any other officer
of the licensee or supplier, as the case may be, of the rank higher than the
rank so authorised shall disconnect the supply line of electricity:Provided
further that such officer of the licensee or supplier, as the case may be,
shall lodge a complaint in writing relating to the Commission of such offence
in police station having jurisdiction within twenty four hours from the time
of such disconnection:Provided also that the licensee or supplier, as the case
may be, on deposit or payment of the assessed amount or electricity charges in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, shall, without prejudice to the
obligation to lodge the complaint as referred to in the second proviso to this
clause, restore the supply line of electricity within forty-eight hours of
such deposit or payment] [Substituted by Commission's Notification No
TNERC/SC/7-2 dated19/05/2006 (w.e.f 1.09.2004).][Substituted by Notification
No. TNERC/SC/7-36 dated 01-07-2014.]

, before substitution stood as under:(1) Whoever, dishonestly,-(a) taps, makes
or causes to be made any connection with overhead, underground or under water
lines or cables, or service wires, or service facilities of a licensee; or(b)
tampers a meter, installs or uses a tampered meter, current reversing
transformer, loop connection or any other device or method which interferes
with accurate or proper registration, calibration or metering of electric
current or other wise results in a manner whereby electricity is stolen or
wasted; or(c) damages or destroys m x electric meter, apparatus, equipment, or
wire or causes or allows any of them to be so damaged or destroyed as to
interfere with the proper or accurate metering of electricity, so as to
abstract or consume or use electricity shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to years or with fine or with both:Provided that
in a case where the load abstracted, consumed, or used or attempted
abstraction or attempted consumption or attempted use -(i) does not exceed 10
kilowatt, the fine imposed on first conviction shall not be less than three
times the financial gain on account of such theft of electricity and in the
event of second or subsequent conviction the fine imposed shall not be less
than six times the financial gain on account of such theft of electricity.(ii)
exceeds 10 kilowatt, the fine imposed on first conviction shall not be less
than three times the financial gain on account of such theft of electricity
and in the event of second or subsequent conviction, the sentence shall be
imprisonment for a term not less than six months but which may extend to five
years and with fine not less than six times the financial gain on account of
such theft of electricity:Provided further that if it is proved that any
artificial means or means not authorised by the Board or Licensee exist for
the abstraction, consumption or use of electricity by the consumer, it shall
be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that any abstraction, consumption
or use of electricity has been dishonestly caused by such consumer."  
---  
  
(2)[Any officer of the licensee or supplier as the case may be] [Substituted
by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-15 dated 09.10.2009 (w.e.f.
15.06.2007).] authorise in Hus behalf by the State Government may -(a)enter,
inspect, break open and search any place or premises in which he has reason to
believe that electricity has been or is being used unauthorisedly;(b)search,
seize and remove all such devices, instruments, wires and any other
facilitator or article which has been or is being used for unauthorised use of
electricity;(c)examine or seize any books of account or documents which % his
opinion shall be useful for or relevant to, any proceedings in respect of the
offence under sub-section (1) and allow the person from whose custody such
books of account or documents are seized to make copies hereof or take
extracts therefrom in his presence.(3)The occupant of the place of search or
any person on his behalf shall remain present during the search and a list of
all things seized in the course of such search shall be prepared and delivered
to such occupant or person who shall sign the list:Provided that no
inspection, search and seizure of any domestic places or domestic premises
shall be carried out between sunset and sunrise except in the presence of an
adult male member occupying such premises.(4)The provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 074), relating to search and seizure shall
apply, as for as may be, to searches and seizure under this Act."Explanation.
- For the purposes of the above section on tampering of meters and theft of
electricity, if the premises in question is occupied by an authorised tenant
through an agreement with the respective consumer, the responsibility shall
rest with the authorised tenant only.[(AA) The Procedure for assessment of the
electricity charges, disconnection of supply of electricity and removing the
meter, electric line, electric plant and other apparatus in case of theft of
electricity as detailed in section 135 of the Act is given below:(1)The
officer authorized under sub-section (2) of section 135 of the Act
(hereinafter referred to as the authorized officer), may either suo motu or on
receipt of reliable information regarding theft of electricity in any
premises, conduct inspection of such place or premises (The provisions of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, relating to search and seizure shall apply,
as far as may be, to searches and seizure under this Act.).(2)(a)The
authorized officer shall prepare a report at the place or premises giving
details such as connected load, condition of seals, working of meter and
record, modus operand adopted for theft of energy. Any damage or destruction
to the electric meter, metering equipments, apparatus, line, cable or
electrical plant of the Licensee or supplier concerned, caused or allowed to
be caused by the accused person so as to interfere with the proper or accurate
metering of electricity or for theft of electricity shall also be duly
recorded in the report indicating whether conclusive evidence substantiating
the fact that theft of energy was found or not. The authorized officer may
also take photo or prepare a diagram illustrating the arrangements found to
have been made for theft of electricity, wherever feasible and such photo or
diagram shall form a part of inspection report. Upon detection of such theft
of electricity, the officer of the licensee or supplier, as the case may be,
as authorized for the purpose by the Commission, may, immediately disconnect
the supply line of electricity and a complaint shall be lodged in the police
station as per the procedure stipulated in section 135 (1 A) of the Act on the
basis of the materials collected by the Assessment officer who has conducted
the inspection. The supply to the premises shall be restored only after
satisfying the stipulation of the third proviso of section 135 (1A) of the
Act.(b)To carry out all or any of the above acts specified in sub-section (1A)
of section 135 of the Act, the Commission authorises the same officers of the
Licensee or the supplier as authorised by the Government of Tamil Nadu to do
all or any of the acts specified in clauses (a) to (c) of sub-section (2) of
section 135 of the Act.(3)In case of suspected theft by tampering of meter or
metering equipment, meter connection security seal or by replacing original
seal by bogus seal, the meter shall be removed and sealed and a separate
report shall be prepared on the condition of the meter and metering equipment
removed and sealed. At the time of sealing, signatures of the accused person
and also of the officers of licensee or supplier concerned, as the case may
be, and any other witness shall be obtained on this report. This report shall
also form a part of the inspection report. The supply shall be restored only
through a meter tested in an accredited test laboratory and metering equipment
of appropriate rating subject to satisfying the condition as specified in sub-
regulation (2). In such cases, the licensee or supplier concerned, as the case
maybe, shall also verify the connected load at the premises and record details
of equipment found in the premises, in the inspection report.(4)In cases where
the theft of electricity by by-passing the meter or metering equipment is
detected and the electrical load, fully or partially, or the accused person's
connection is found connected directly with the lines, Cables or electrical
plant, electric supply to such premises shall be disconnected forthwith as
stipulated in sub-regulation (2) and shall be restored only after the cause of
theft is removed to the satisfaction of the licensee or supplier concerned, as
the case may be, and subject to satisfying the condition as stipulated in sub-
regulation(2).(5)In cases of theft by direct tapping from the licensee's or
supplier's lines, cables or electrical plant of the licensee or supplier, if
the accused person unauthorizedly connects or reconnects any meter of the
licensee or supplier in a disconnected service, then electric supply to such
premises or place shall be disconnected forthwith as stipulated in sub-
regulation (2). The licensee or supplier concerned, as the case may be, may
subsequently remove or divert or convert his line, cable or electrical plant
to prevent further theft of electricity provided that such action shall not
result in any inconvenience in affording quality supply or disruption of
supply, to other consumers.(6)The authorized officer and any other officer of
the licensee or supplier concerned, as the case may be, who accompanied the
authorized officer shall sign the inspection report in all the above cases and
obtain signatures of the accused person or his representative and the same
must be handed over to the accused person or his representative at site
immediately under proper receipt. In case of refusal by the accused person
either to sign or accept or give a receipt, a copy of inspection report must
be pasted at a conspicuous place in or outside the premises and a note
recorded on the office copy of the inspection report to the effect that the
copy of the report has been pasted at the conspicuous place of the premises. A
copy of the report shall be subsequently sent to the accused person of the
premises under registered post within three days of inspection.(7)Where it is
established that there is a case of theft of energy, the authorized officer
shall assess the quantum of energy consumption for the past twelve months as
per the assessment formula given in Form 8 in Appendix to this code and
prepare provisional assessment order for the charges for such consumption at
two times of the tariff applicable (i.e the applicable tariff for the purpose
for which the pilfered energy was used) and serve on the accused person under
proper receipt. The authorized officer may reduce the period for such billing
if it is established by the facts or documents submitted in the representation
of the accused person or any such other evidence observed by the authorized
officer. Wherever electronic meters are installed and the load curves are
studied periodically, the period of theft could be limited to the exact period
as could be determined scientifically. The authorized officer shall record
reasons for such reduction in the period of billing, in the assessment order.
The energy consumption arrived at as per the formula referred to in the said
Form 8 will be charged excluding the energy consumption recorded by the meter
as per the rates specified by the Commission's Tariff Order.(8)Within five
days of inspection, the authorized officer shall serve on the accused person,
provisional assessment order in the Form 9 in Appendix to this code for the
charges for the theft of electricity based on the evidence recorded during the
course of inspection. The order should clearly state the time, date and place
at which the reply has to be submitted and the designation/address of the
officer to whom it should be addressed. The accused person shall be required
to submit his representation within seven days of issue of the provisional
assessment order.(9)In case of suspected theft through a tampered meter, such
tampered meter taken out and sealed at the time of inspection, as prescribed
in sub regulation (3), shall be sent to the third party accredited meter
testing laboratory as arranged by the licensee or supplier concerned, as the
case may be, or to the Chief Electrical Inspector to the State Government till
such time the third party meter testing arrangement is established by the
licensee or supplier concerned, as the case may be. The accused person shall
be given a notice of seven working days for witnessing the test of such meter
at such meter testing laboratory. The notice shall clearly indicate the time,
date and place wherein the suspected tampered meter shall be tested and the
accused person shall be allowed to witness the test. The accused person shall
duly sign the test results report after witnessing it. If such accused person
does not turn up at the meter testing laboratory on the appointed date and
time indicated in the notice to witness the test or refuses to sign the test
results, the licensee or supplier concerned, as the case may be, shall
carryout the test in the absence of such accused person and shall send a copy
of results to the accused person through registered post within three days of
the date of testing.(10)In cases where the meter has been tested at such meter
testing laboratory and where it is established that there is a case of theft
of energy, the procedure for assessment as specified in sub regulation (7)
shall be followed.(11)In case the accused person does not respond to the
provisional order within seven working days, the licensee or supplier
concerned, as the case may be, may proceed to initiate the recovery against
the provisional assessment order.(12)Within seven working days from the date
of submission of such accused person's reply, if made within the seven working
days from the date of receipt of provisional assessment order, the authorized
officer shall arrange a personal hearing with such accused person. For this
purpose the authorized officer shall serve a three days notice to such accused
person to allow him for a personal hearing and shall also allow any additional
submission of new facts or documents if any, during the course of hearing by
such accused person. If such accused person does not respond to the notice in
the matter, the authorized officer shall proceed to issue the final assessment
order, as per the procedure specified herein after.(13)Before the personal
hearing, the authorized officer before whom personal hearing shall be
conducted, shall analyze the case after carefully considering all the
documents, submissions by the accused person, facts on record and the
consumption pattern, whatever available.(14)The authorized officer shall also
compute the quantum of energy consumption for the past twelve months. The
Assessment Officer may study the energy consumption pattern of the Service
Connection concerned for the past one year or more. If necessary, it may also
be compared with the load/production pattern or output of the service
connection. In case of suspected theft, if consumption pattern is commensurate
with the assessed consumption or in case of the decision that the case of
suspected theft is not established, no further proceedings shall be taken and
the decision shall be communicated to the accused person under proper receipt
within three working days and the supply to the premises shall be restored
forthwith.(15)Considering the facts submitted by the accused person, the
authorised officer shall issue, within seven working days from the date of
enquiry, a final assessment order in Form 10 in Appendix to this code. If the
accused person does not respond to the personal hearing, the authorised
officer shall issue a final assessment order within fifteen days from the
issuance of provisional assessment order. This speaking order shall contain a
brief of inspection report, submissions made by accused person in his written
reply as well as during his personal hearing and reasons for acceptance or
rejection of the same and the assessment charges as per sub-regulation (12).
In the final assessment order, charges, if any, paid by the accused person
during the period for which the assessment is done shall be duly credited, if
warranted, to avoid duplication of billing for such period.(16)The final
assessment amount and the last date should be clearly stated in the speaking
order. A copy of the speaking order shall be handed over to the accused person
under proper receipt on the same day.(17)The accused person shall be required
to make the payment within seven working days of receipt of final assessment
order. On deposit or payment of the assessed amount or electricity charges by
the accused person, supply to the premises shall be restored as referred to in
the third proviso of section 135 (1A) of the Act.(18)In case of default in
payment of the assessed amount, the licensee or supplier concerned, as the
case may be, shall, after giving a fifteen days' notice in writing, remove
meter and service line and also electrical plant for giving supply to this
connection. However if the accused person makes payment within notice period,
surcharge applicable to that category shall also be payable as prescribed in
this code.(19)In case where the theft of electricity in the premises which
does not have regular electricity connection, has been detected and the
licensee or supplier concerned, as the case may be, shall forthwith disconnect
the supply to such premises. In such premises supply shall be given only after
the accused person has cleared the dues to be paid on account of charges
assessed for theft oi electricity in full including surcharge if any and has
availed a regular new connection after completing the required
formalities.(20)If the accused person does not make payment, the licensee or
supplier concerned, as the case may be, may proceed to recover its dues
against such order and take such further action as is permitted under the
Act.(21)If no person is available to whom the provisional or final assessment
order can be served with reasonable diligence or if any person refuses to
accept or avoids to receive such order, it shall be affixed at the inspected
premises in the presence of two witnesses and in such case an endorsement to
the effect shall be made in the copy of such order. An assessment order so
affixed shall be deemed to have been duly served to the person or occupier of
the premises.(22)In case of compounding the notice as in Form 11 in Appendix
to this code may be issued and the amount collected as per section 152 of the
Act.Explanation. - For the purpose of this regulation and regulation
23-BB:(a)"accused person" shall mean and include the owner or occupier of the
premises or his authorized agent or representative or any other person who is
in occupation or possession or in charge of the premises at the relevant time
of detection of theft of electricity or any other person who has been
benefited by the theft of electricity.(b)"authorised officer", shall in case
if he is not an officer of the licensee or supplier, as the case maybe, mean
and include an officer designated or appointed as an authorised officer by the
State Government for the purpose of dealing with theft of electricity as
provided in the Act, including the assessment of theft of energy empowered
under this code.(c)"licensee or supplier" means and includes the licensee or
supplier, as the case may be or his franchisee or his authorized agent or
representative who alleges the occurrence of theft of electricity.](B)Theft of
electric lines and materials. - Section 136 of the Act, which deals with theft
of electric lines and materials, reads as follows: -"(1) Whoever, dishonestly.
-(a)cuts or removes or takes away or transfers any electric line, material or
meter from a tower, pole, any other installation or place of installation or
any other place, or site where it may be rightfully or lawfully stored,
deposited, kept, stocked, situated or located, including during
transportation, without the consent of the licensee or the owner, as the case
may be, whether or not the act is done for profit or gain; or(b)stores,
possesses or otherwise keeps in his premises, custody or control, any electric
line, material or meter without the consent of the owner, whether or not the
act is committed for profit or gain; or(c)loads, carries, or moves from one
place to another any electric line, material or meter without the consent of
its owner, whether or not the act is done for profit or gain, is said to have
committed offence of theft of electric lines and materials, and shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years fine
or with both.(2)If a person, having been convicted of an offence punishable
under sub-section (1) is again guilty of an offence punishable under this sub-
section, he shall be punishable for the second or subsequent for a term of
imprisonment which shall not be less than six months but which may extend to
five years and shall also be liable to fine which shall not be less than ten
thousand rupees."(BB)[ The measures to prevent diversion of electricity, theft
or unauthorized use of electricity or tampering, distress or damage to
electrical plant, electric lines or meter are detailed below:(1)The licensee
shall arrange for routine testing and certification of different meters as
stipulated in the Central Electricity Authority (Installation and Operation of
Meters) Regulations 2006 and in any other directions issued by the
Commission.(2)The licensee shall arrange to provide pilfer proof meter boxes
and meters with anti tampering features as stipulated in the regulations made
by Authority under the Act on Installation and Operation of Meters in all
industrial new connections and at least in 10% existing industrial connections
every year. This maybe extended to other categories whose load / demand, is
more than 18.6 KW.(3)All new Industrial, HT and EHT metering systems shall be
immune to external influences like magnetic induction, vibration,
electrostatic discharge, switching Transients, Surge Voltages, oblique
suspension, harmonics or any other factor. This may be extended to other
categories whose existing contracted load/demand is more than 18.6 KW.(4)The
licensee shall arrange for regular and surprise inspection of premises by
their officers to ensure prevention of theft or unauthorized use of
electricity or tampering, distress or damage to electrical plant, electric
lines or meter. At least 5% of total connections should be inspected annually
and the provisions contained in sections 126 and 135 (2) shall be effectively
implemented.(5)Priority shall be given to detection of theft of electricity
cases by the licensee, particularly in theft prone areas.(6)The licensee shall
evolve a system and put in place within three months for carrying out regular
monthly monitoring of consumption of high value consumer, which shall include
all the HT connections and LT connections having contract demand of 18.6 KW
and above. Variations in the consumption shall be carefully analyzed. The
licensee shall arrange prompt inspection in doubtful cases.(7)The licensee
shall endeavour to install remote metering devices on all HT connections on
priority, and may be implemented over a period of time after analysing cost
economics, for the purpose of monitoring of consumption and prevention of
theft of electricity. The licensee shall further endeavour to install remote
metering devices on high value LT connections.(8)The licensee shall arrange to
give due publicity through the media, TV, newspaper and by displaying in
boards at consumer service related offices of the licensee to bring awareness
regarding the level of commercial losses due to theft or unauthorized use of
electricity, its implication on the honest consumers and seek the cooperation
of the consumers for prevention of theft or unauthorized use of electricity or
tampering, distress or damage to electrical plant, electric lines or meter.
The licensee shall also display boards containing the information on the above
at its consumer service related offices.(9)The licensee shall arrange to
display feeder wise losses, efforts made for prevention of diversion of
electricity, theft or unauthorized use of electricity or tampering, distress
or damage to electrical plant, electric lines or meter and results obtained
during the year, on its website.(10)The licensee shall arrange to provide
requisite security staff to the inspecting officers for their safety and
expenses on such account shall be a pass through in the Annual Revenue
Requirement of the licensee. Such security staff shall invariably accompany
the inspecting officers in order to ensure safety of the inspecting
officer.(11)The licensee shall arrange to install meter on distribution
transformers of the suspected area where the possibilities of theft of
electricity exists and shall monitor the consumption of such meters with the
consumption of individual consumer meters connected to the distribution
transformer. The licensee shall carryout intensive inspection in areas, if the
difference in consumption of the distribution transformers meter and
individual consumer meters connected to the distribution transformer is
abnormal.(12)The licensee may provide HV distribution system in theft prone
areas using small capacity distribution transformer, wherever necessary, to
prevent theft by direct hooking.(13)The licensee is authorized to relocate the
meters of existing consumers to an appropriate location so that it is outside
the premises but within the boundary wall and easily accessible for reading,
inspection/ testing and other related works.(14)The licensee shall ensure that
meter readers are rotated in such a manner that their area of meter reading is
changed at least once in a year.](C)Punishment for receiving stolen property.
- Section 138 of the Act, which deals with punishment for receiving stolen
property reads as follows:-"Whoever dishonestly receives any stolen electric
line or material knowing or having reasons to believe the same to be stolen
property, shall be punishable with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to three years or with fine or with
both."(D)Interference with meters or works of licensee. - Section 138 of the
Act, which deals with interference with meters or works of licensee reads as
follows:-"(1) Whoever, -(a)unauthorisedly connects any meter, indicator or
apparatus with any electric line through which electricity is supplied by a
licensee or disconnects the same from any such electric line;
or(b)unauthorisedly re-connects any meter, indicator or apparatus with any
electric line or other works being the property of a licensee when the said
electric line or other works has or have been cut or disconnected; or(c)lays
or causes to be laid, or connects up any works for the purpose of
communicating with any other works belonging to a licensee; or(d)maliciously
injures any meter, indicator, or apparatus belonging to a licensee or
willfully or fraudulently alters the index of any such meter, indicator or
apparatus or prevents any such meter, indicator or apparatus from duly
registering, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to three years, or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with
both, and, in the case of a continuing offence, with a daily fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees; and if it is proved that any means exist for
making such connection as is referred to in clause (a) or such re-connection
as is referred to in clause (6), or such communication as is referred to in
clause (c), for causing such alteration or prevention as is referred to in
clause (d), and that the meter, indicator or apparatus is under the custody or
control of the consumer, whether it is his property or not, it shall be
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that such connection, re-connection,
communication, alteration, prevention or improper use, as the case may be, has
been knowingly and willfully caused by such consumer."(E)Negligently breaking
or damaging works. - Section 139 of the Act, which deals with negligent usage,
reads as follows:"Whoever, negligently breaks, injures, throws down or damages
any material connected with the supply of electricity, shall be punishable
with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees."(F)Penalty for
intentionally injuring works. - Section 140 of the Act, which deals with the
penalty for maliciously wasting electricity or injuring works, reads as
follows:-"Whoever, with intent to cut off the supply of electricity, cuts or
injures, or attempts to cut or injure, any electric supply line or works,
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to ten thousand
rupees."(G)Extinguishing public lamps. - Section 141 of the Act, which deals
with penalty for extinguishing public lamps, reads as follows:-"Whoever,
maliciously extinguishes any public lamp shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to two thousand rupees."

### 24. Compounding of offences.

\- Section 152 of the Act which deals with compounding of offences reads
as:(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (2 of 1974), the Appropriate Government or any officer authorized by it
in this behalf may accept from any consumer or person who committed or who is
reasonably suspected of having committed an offence of theft of electricity
punishable under this Act, a sum of money by way of compounding of the offence
as specified in the Table below:

Nature of Service. |  Rate at which the sum of money for compounding tobe collected per Kilowatt (KW) /Horse Power (PIP) or part thereoffor Low Tension (LT) supply and per Kilo Volt Ampere (KVA) ofcontracted demand for High Tension (HT).  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1\. Industrial Service | twenty thousand rupees;  
2\. Commercial Service | ten thousand rupees;  
3\. Agricultural Service | two thousand rupees;  
4\. Other Services | four thousand rupees:  
  
Provided that the Appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, amend the rates specified in the Table above.(2)On payment of the sum
of money in accordance with sub-section (1), any person in custody in
connection with that offence shall be set at liberty and no proceedings shall
be instituted or continued against such consumer or person in any Criminal
Court.(3)The acceptance of the sum of money for compounding an offence in
accordance with sub-section (1) by the Appropriate Government or an officer
empowered in this behalf shall be deemed to amount to an acquittal within the
meaning of section 300 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).(4)The compounding of an offence under sub-section (1) shall be allowed
only once for any person or consumer.

### 25. Power for licensee to enter premises and to remove fittings or other
apparatus of licensee.

\- Section 163 of the Act provides the powers for licensee to enter premises
and reads as:"(1) A licensee or any person duly authorised by a licensee may,
at any reasonable time, and on informing the occupier of his intention, enter
any premises to which electricity is, or has been, supplied by him, of any
premises or land, under, over, along, across, in or upon which the electric
supply-lines or other works have been lawfully placed by him for the purpose
of:(a)inspecting, testing, repairing or altering the electric supply-lines,
meters, fittings, works and apparatus for the supply of electricity belonging
to the licensee; or(b)ascertaining the amount of electricity supplied or the
electrical quantity contained in the supply; or(c)removing where a supply of
electricity is no longer required, or where the licensee is authorised to take
away and cut off such supply, any electric supply-lines, meters, fittings,
works or apparatus belonging to the licensee.(2)A licensee or any person
authorised as aforesaid may also, in pursuance of a special order in this
behalf made by an ExecutiveMagistrate and after giving not less than twenty-
four hours notice in writing to the occupier, -(a)enter any premises or land
referred to in sub-section (1) for any of the purposes mentioned
therein;(b)enter any premises to which electricity is to be supplied by him,
for the purpose of examining and testing the electric wires, fittings, works
and apparatus for the use of electricity belonging to the consumer.(3)Where a
consumer refuses to allow a licensee or any person authorised as aforesaid to
enter his premises or land in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1)
or, sub-section (2), when such licensee or person has so entered, refuses to
allow him to perform any act which he is authorised by those sub-sections to
perform, or fails to give reasonable facilities for such entry or performance,
the licensee may, after the expiry of twenty-four hours from the service of a
notice in writing on the consumer, cut off the supply to the consumer for so
long as such refusal or failure continues; but for no longer."

### 26. Code to be read along with Distribution Code, Electricity Act, 2003
and amendments, etc,.

(1)As this Code is intended to deal with the working relations between the
licensee and the consumer, this Code shall be read along with the Distribution
Code, the State Grid Code and other relevant provisions of the Act, rules and
regulations made thereunder pertaining to supply and consumption of
electricity.(2)Where any of the provisions of this Code is found to be
inconsistent with those of the Act, rules or regulations made thereunder,
notwithstanding such inconsistency, the remaining provisions of this Code
shall remain operative.(3)Where any dispute arises as to the application or
interpretation of any provision of this Code, it shall be referred to the
Commission whose decision shall be final and binding on the parties
concerned.(4)Wherever extracts of the Electricity Act, 2003 are reproduced,
any changes / amendments to the original Act shall automatically be deemed to
be effective under this Code also.

## Chapter 5  
Code Review Panel

### 27. Appointment of Code Review Panel.

(1)The Commission may appoint a Code Review Panel (hereafter in this Chapter
referred to as "Panel") consisting of -(a)A Chairperson at the level of
Director of the Distribution Licensee.(b)A Member Secretary, who shall be the
Chief Engineer/Commercial of the Distribution Licensee.(c)One Member from the
SLDC who is not below the rank of Chief Engineer.(d)Three representatives from
the Distribution Licensee who are not below the rank of Chief Engineer and one
representative from the Distribution Licensee who is not below the rank of
Chief Financial Controller.(e)One representative from LT domestic consumer
sector, one from LT commercial sector, one from LT industry sector and one
from LT agricultural consumer sector.(f)One member representing the EHT / HT
consumers.(g)One member representing open access consumers.(2)The Member
Secretary shall arrange for the Panel meeting. The tenure of the members
mentioned under clauses (e), (f) and (g) of sub-regulation (1) shall be three
years. The members, on expiry of their term are not eligible for re-
nomination.(3)The functions of the panel are:(a)to review the working of
various provisions of this Code, [***] [The words 'the State Grid Code'
omitted by Commission's Notification No.TNERC./SC/7-4 dated25.5.2007
(w.e.f.13.6.2007).] and the Distribution Code;(b)to consider the suggestions
received from the licensees, consumers and other interested persons;(c)to
consider and offer its views on any specific matter as may be referred to it
by the Commission.(4)Manner of reviewing the Code. - (i) Any licensee,
consumer or other interested persons desiring any change in this Code shall
send the proposal in writing to the panel specifying the reasons for such
change and setting out the attendant circumstances. For this purpose, the
licensee may hold meetings with the consumer or group of consumers if it is
considered that the Code may require changes to meet the individual
requirements of the consumer or group of consumers.(ii)The panel shall, upon
receipt of such proposal or where the Commission has made a reference, forward
the same to the STU for its consideration and written comments.(iii)The panel
shall convene a meeting of its members to consider the comments of the STU,
and if necessary at its discretion, invite and hear the person who made the
suggestions for change and other interested persons and also the local
authorities and tele-communication companies.(iv)The panel may, in considering
the suggestion and the comments of the STU thereon, set up sub-committees to
study the related issues.(v)The panel after finalising its views on the
modifications to the Code, forward the same to the Commission:Provided that
the panel may supplement its own procedure in addition to the procedure laid
down herein for conducting its meetings and in carrying out its
functions.(5)The Commission may approve the changes with or without
modification as it may deem fit and cause the publication of the same in such
manner as may be necessary.[Appendix] [Inserted by Commission's Notification
No. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 13.6.2007).]Form 1[Refer to
regulation 5(7)]ToThe Designated Engineer,I,
....................(S/o)/(D/o)/(W/o)...............aged....... Years, am
residing at (Full Address & Phone No.)
.............................................................The premises
bearing Door No.............................. Name of Street
..............................................Village/Town....................
Taluk with Service Connection ..................... No................. Tariff
......................Distribution in the name of.......................S/o.
.........................is in my possession.(1)The xerox copy of the sale
deed in my favour for the said premises is enclosed, orThe property tax
receipt for the above property is given in my name and xerox copy of the same
duly attested by Gazetted Officer is enclosed, orMetro Water/Sewerage
connection is given in my name and the xerox copy of the same duly attested by
Gazetted Officer is enclosed, orLegal heirship certificate from the Tahsildar
concerned.(2)Application and Agreement Form.(3)Indemnity Bond on Rs.80/-Non-
judicial stamp paper (Applicable in the case of name transfer due to legal
succession).I undertake to pay amounts outstanding against the Account
No..........................which are found to be due at a later date.I
request that the name of Service No.......................may kindly be
changed to my name.

Place: | Signature of transferee.  
---|---  
Date: | Full Address:  
  
Form 2Name Transfer Forms[Refer to regulation 5 (7)](To be used as a consent
letter from transferor in case of sale, etc.)ToThe Designated Engineer/Address
of the Licensee EngineerI ...................... (S/o D/o
W/o)....................owner of premises bearing Door No ...................
(Name of the
street.........................................Place......................)
hereby give my consent for the transfer of service bearing A/c.
No.................. standing in my name / in the name,
of.........................to Thiru / Tmt .......................S/o. D/o
W/o....................................since I had sold my house to him /
her...............................................The transfer may be effected
with available deposit / subject to the condition that the transferee pays the
security deposit and other charges*.

Place: | Signature of transferee.  
---|---  
Date: | Full Address:  
  
* Strike out the portion not required.Form 3[Refer to regulation 5(7)]Indemnity BondSub: Electricity - Distribution - Transfer of security deposit and service connection - premises No...................A/c. No..............I son of/ daughter of /wife of ......................... Thiru./ Tmt ....................do hereby declare that Thiru / Tmt.................. owner of the above premises has expired on................. and I am the legal heir to the deceased, I desire to have the security deposit and service connection transferred in my name. I agree to indemnify the licensee against any losses, damages, etc., arising consequent on any disputes by reason of the security deposit and service connections being transferred to me as the legal heir to the property of late Thiru /Tmt.....................The licensee shall have the right to proceed against me not only in respect of movable and immovable properties belonging to me but also against me personally in regard to all liabilities past, present and future claims relating to this service connection. The above facts are certified to be correct.Signature of the consumer.Signed before meNotary Public / Gazetted OfficerStation:Date:Form 4[Refer to regulation 5(7)]UndertakingWhereas I/We.......................S/o. D/o. W/o ................... (a firm under the name and style of)..................................... hereinafter called consumer, have approached the......................... (Name of licensee) hereinafter referred to as licensee for transfer of A/c No. ..............for supply at........................................in my / our name and whereas the licensee after perusal of documents produced by me / us has agreed to effect transfer of account, as sought for by the consumer, this undertaking witness the following:The consumer shall pay on demand and without demand all dues to the licensee including such dues as may become payable as a result of revision of bills relating to the period prior to the transfer of account in his / her / their name. The commitment to pay the demands relating to the period prior to the transfer of account will include such demands omitted to be made periodically and such omission has been detected after the service has been transferred in the name of the consumer.

### 2\. The Consumer agrees that the licensee shall have the right to enforce
disconnection of supply in the event of consumer failing to fulfill the
obligation of this undertaking.

### 3\. The consumer further agrees to indemnify the licensee against any
loss/damage or any other liability, the licensee may suffer as a result of any
dispute or disputes raised by the consumer himself / herself/ themselves or by
any other party with regard to this transfer of account at any time.

Signature.Witness With Address

### 1\.

### 2\.

Form 5[Refer to regulation 22(8)]Undertaking For Payment of Dues In
Instalments.Undertaking to be furnished by a consumer who seeks to avail the
facility of paying his dues in
installments.From......................................................ToThe
Designated Engineer,Distribution Licensee Name and addressUndertakingSir,In
consideration of my / our paying the amounts in instalments
towards...............I, for and on behalf of.................undertake -(i)to
pay the total dues of Rs..........(Rupees..................) in monthly
instalments subject to levy of belated payment surcharge in case of default to
pay the instalment on the dates specified below:First instalment
Rs...........................payable on or before....................Second
instalment Rs......................payable on or
before....................Third instalment
Rs............................payable on or before....................payable
on or before and so on.(ii)to adhere strictly to the schedule of instalments
and also to pay before the due dates the monthly / bi-monthly current
consumption charges failing which the supply may be disconnected without
further notice and the re-connection may be effected only on settlement of the
entire (including balance instalment) dues with belated payment surcharge for
the instalments not paid on the due date.Signature.(Seal of the Company)In
presence of- Witness (Name and Address)(1)(2)Form 6[Refer to regulation
20]Form of Appeal to the Prescribed Appellate Authority Under Section 127 (1)
of the Act.(1)Appeal No................of..............(2)Name and address of
the appellant:(3)Designation and address of the Assessing.Officer passing the
order(4)Date of communication of the order appealed against to the
appellant(5)Address to which notices may be sent to the appellant(6)Amount
ordered to be paid(7)Whether the [half] [Substituted for the expression 'one
third' by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-15 dated 09.10.2009 (w.e.f.
15.06.2007).] of the assessed amount as required under section 127 (2) of the
Act is deposited (Documentary proof of the deposit shall be
furnished)(8)Statement of facts (here state the facts briefly)(9)Grounds of
appeal(Here set out the grounds on which the appeal is made by the
appellant)(10)Whether the appellant wishes to be heard in person or through an
advocate or authorised representative (In case if the appellant wishes to be
rep resented by his authorised representative or by an advocate then a letter
of authority authorising the authorised representative to represent on his
behalf or as the case may be a vakkalat authorising the advocate to represent
his case shall be furnished.)(11)Relief prayed forSignature of the authorised
representative, if any.Signature of the appellant.Form 7Affidavit In
Support(Refer to regulation 20)Before The Appellate Authority Under Section
127(1) of The Act.Appeal No...................(To be filled by the Office of
the Appellate Authority)

Name and address of the appellant | ...... Appellant  
---|---  
Designation and address of the Assessing Officer | .......Respondent  
  
Affidavit of verification by the appellant in support of the Appeal Petition
filed by him. -I,....................son
of.................aged...........................................................residing
at ................. do solemnly affirm and say as follows:

### 1\. I am the appellant / authorised representative of the appellant in the
Appeal Petition filed by me against the orders of the Assessing Officer
referred to above as the respondent in my Appeal Petition and as such I am
competent to verify the facts set out in my Appeal Petition.

### 2\. I solemnly affirm at.............on this day of.............
that................

(i)the contents of the above appeal petition are true to my knowledge and I
believe that no part of it is false and no material has been concealed
therefrom;(ii)the statement made in paragraphs...................of the appeal
petition herein now shown to me and marked with the letter 'A' are true to my
knowledge; and(iii)the statements made in paragraphs ............ marked with
the letter 'B' are based on information received from ...................and I
believe them to be true.Identified before me bySignature of the AppellantList
of Abbreviations

### 1\. DD - Demand Draft.

### 2\. HP - Horse Power

### 3\. ISI - Indian Standards Institute

### 4\. KVA - Kilo Volt Ampere

### 5\. KW-Kilo Watt

### 6\. SLDC - State Load Despatch Centre

[Form 8] [Inserted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated
25.5.2007 (w.e.f. 15.6.2007).][See Regulation 23 (AA) (7)]Formula To Assess
The Quantum of Energy In Case of Theft of ElectricityThe following factors are
to be considered to arrive at a formula for the assessment of quantum of
energy in case of theft of electricity.(i)Nature of Service(ii)Connected load
/ Contracted demand(iii)Load factor(iv)Nature of feeder (Rural / Urban /
Industrial) and supply restrictions in the feeder(iv)Per day usage hours for
which assessment has to be made.The authorized officer may take into account
the following and arrive at the least period (duration) of theft:i. for the
period of twelve monthsii. for the period from the date of prior inspection if
any by the Enforcement or meter testing wing to the date of detectioniii. from
the date of service connection to the date of detectioniv. wherever electronic
meters are installed and the load curves are studied periodically the period
of theft could be limited to the exact period as could be determined
scientifically.v. Based on the document produced by the accused person.vi. For
any other reasonable period as assessed by the authorized officer to the best
of his judgment

| U=| L x LF x H x DDF|  
---  
  
WhereU = Quantum of energy Assessed in UnitsL = Load / demand in KWLF = Load
factorH = Number of hours the load is considered to be used in a day.D =
Duration of assessment in daysDF = Diversity FactorThe following tables give
the Load Factor, and the Number of hours per day usage for different
categories of usage of the pilfered Energy.Table-A

Usage Categories of pilfered energy | Diversity Factor | Load Factor | Number of hours per day  
---|---|---|---  
Domestic (without Air conditioning load) andHuts | 1 | 30% | 12  
Domestic (with Air conditioning load) | 1March toSeptember | 70% | 12  
| Other months . | 30% | 12  
Industrial including cottage industries | 1 | 80% | As per Table-B  
Power looms etc Public lighting and water supply | 1 | 100% | 8  
Agricultural | 1 | 100% | 10  
All other categories | 1.1 | 90% | 12  
  
Table B

| Category | Number of hours per day  
---|---|---  
1 |  Fed by High Tension rural feedershaving only 14hours of supply per day:- |   
| i. Day Shift only | 6  
| ii. Night Shift only | 8  
| iii. Both day and night shifts | 14  
2 |  Fed by High Tension feeders having 24 hours ofsupply:- |   
| i. Day shift only | 8  
| ii. 2 Shifts | 16  
| iii. 3 Shifts | 24  
  
i. The term "Usage Categories" given in Table - A refers to the purpose for
which the suspected pilfered energy is used. For example if the pilfered
energy in a hut service connection is used for domestic purpose, the
assessment shall be made under "domestic category", if it is used for
commercial purpose, it shall be assessed under "all other categories" as
mentioned in the above Table - A.ii (a) For High Tension Service connections,
the maximum demand shall be assessed as 75% of the total connected load at the
time of inspection subject to a minimum of the contracted demand. A power
factor of 0.90 lag may be used for conversion of KVA or KW.(b)Assessment of
demand charges: -Twice the appropriate H.T. tariff rate for maximum
demand.[Form 9] [Substituted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-5
dated 23.8.2007 (w.e.f. 15.06.2007).][See Regulation 23 (AA) (8)]Provisional
Assessment Order For Theft of Energy Under Section 135/138 of The Electricity
Act, 2003

From(The Authorised Officer), | ToFull address of the person inwhose name the service connectionstands (or) occupier (or) enjoyer, etc.)  
---|---  
  
Letter...........................,dated.....................Sir,Sub: Theft of
energy - Detected in SC No Provisional Assessment Order-Reg.Ref: Inspection
Report dated1.0On.............(the day, month, year of inspection) at...(time)
hours the service connection in SC No ............ located at Door No .......,
in SF No ........... (Full address of the service connection) which is/was in
the name of Thiru /Thirumathy...............was inspected by me in the
presence of you/your representative Thiru/Thirumathy...............2.0During
the inspection it was found that an offence of theft of energy has been
comitted................................(describe actual mode of theft with
details of artificial means found in the service/unauthorized reconnection of
a disconnected service connection). By committing the said offence, you have
dishonestly abstracted, consumed and used energy with the intention to defraud
the licensee.The above said illegal abstraction, consumption and use of energy
is punishable under section 135 of the Electricity Act 2003.3.0The approximate
loss caused by you due to dishonest abstraction/illegal restoration of supply
is assessed at Rs ................ (Rupees.................) in accordance
with the regulations of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code, and a working
sheet is enclosed herewith.4.0The assessment amount as referred to above shall
be paid within 7 working days from the date of receipt of this order.5.0If you
are desirous of filing objections, if any, against the provisional assessment,
you may send your explanation to the address of the undersigned with
sufficient proof, within seven days from the date of receipt of this order.
You may also choose to appear in person or through an authorised
representative with relevant documents for an enquiry before the
undersigned.6.0You are requested to acknowledge the receipt of. this order
immediately.Yours faithfully, Authorised Officer......Encl : Copies of

### 1\. Report

### 2\. Statement Recorded (if any)

### 3\. Mahazar

Copy submitted to:.............Copy toHe is instructed to arrange to serve
this order to the accused person with dated acknowledgement and send the
acknowledgement to this office.[Form 10] [Substituted by Commission's
Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-5 dated 23.8.2007 (w.e.f. 15.06.2007).][See
Regulation 23 (AA) (15)]Final Assessment Order For Theft Of Energy Under
Section 135 Of The Electricity Act, 2003

From(The Authorised Officer),Letter No.........dated...... | To(Full address of the person inwhose name the serviceconnection stands (or) occupier(or) enjoyer, etc.)  
---|---  
  
Sir,Sub: Theft of energy - Detected in SC No Final AssessmentOrder -Reg.Ref:
1. Provisional Assessment Order.......

### 2\. Your reply ...........

*****1.0On.......(the day, month, year of inspection) at...............(time)
hours the service connection in SC No located at Door No in SF No. (Full
address of the service connection) which is/was in the name of
Thiru/Thirumathy ............... was inspected by me in the presence of
you/your representative Thiru/Thirumathy.................2.0During the
inspection it was found that an offence of theft of energy has been
committed.............................(describe the actual mode of theft with
details of artificial means found in the service/unauthorized reconnection of
a disconnected service connection).By committing the said offence, you have
dishonestly abstracted, consumed and used energy with the intention to defraud
the licensee. The above said illegal abstraction, consumption and use of
energy is punishable under section 135 of the Electricity Act 2003.3.0A
provisional assessment was issued to you in the reference cited and you were
allowed to file your objections and to appear for a hearing as per the Tamil
Nadu Electricity Supply Code.4.0On a detailed examination and on consideration
of your explanation offered, facts and records furnished in your letter /
during the personal hearing, it is found that the theft of electricity has
been committed by you as described below: -(A reasoned/detailed order to be
passed by the Officer concerned taking into consideration the theft of
electricity noticed, explanation and the findings. Reference to be made to the
materials in support of the claim of the licensee about the existence of
theft, the involvement or the role of the consumer with reference to the said
theft of energy, submissions made by accused person in his written reply as
well as during his personal hearing and reasons for acceptance or rejection of
the same).5.0The loss caused by you due to dishonest* abstraction/*illegal
restoration of supply is assessed at Rs .............
(Rupees.......................) in accordance with the regulations of the
Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code, and a working sheet is enclosed herewith.
The assessment amount referred to above shall be paid within seven working
days from the date of receipt of this order.You are requested to acknowledge
the receipt of this order immediately.Yours faithfully,Authorised
Officer............Encl: Copies of

### 1\. Report

### 2\. Statement Recorded (if any)

### 3\. Mahazar

### 4\. Provisional Assessment Order.

Copy submitted to:He is instructed to arrange to serve the order to the
accused person with dated acknowledgement and send the same to this office.*
Strike out whichever is not applicable.FORM 11[See Regulation 23(AA)
(22)]Compounding of Offence Under Section 152 of The Electricity Act, 2003.

From(The Authorised Officer),Letter No..............dated.... | To(Full address of the person inwhose name the service connectionstands (or) occupier (or) enjoyer, etc)  
---|---  
  
Sir,Sub: Theft of energy - Detected in SC No Order on CompoundingAmount -
Reg.****1.0On.............(the day, month, year of inspection) at
.............. (time) hours the service connection in SC No ............
located at Door No.................. in SF No..............(Full address of
the service connection) which is/was in the name of Thiru /
Thirumathy.............was inspected by me in the presence of you/your
representative.............................................Thiru/Thirumathy.............................2.0*During
the inspection it was found that an offence of theft of energy has been
committed................................... (describe the actual mode of
theft with details of artificial means found in the service/ unauthorized
reconnection of a disconnected service connection). By committing the said
offence, you have dishonestly abstracted, consumed and used energy with the
intention to defraud the licensee.3.0The above said illegal abstraction,
consumption and use of energy is punishable under section 135 of the
Electricity Act 2003.4.0As you have opted for compounding of offence under
section 152 of the Electricity Act, 2003, you are requested to pay
Rs..........(Rupees .................) towards the compounding of the offence
as mentioned above.Yours faithfully,Authorized officerEncl: Working sheet.Copy
to:[Inserted by Commission's Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-4 dated 25.5.2007
(w.e.f. 1.09.2004).][Substituted by Commission's Notification No TNERC/SC/7-5
dated 23.8.2007 (w.e.f. 15.06.2007).][Inserted by Commission's Notification No
TNERC/SC/7-11 dated15.12.2008 (w.e.f. 28.11.2008) (Gazette publication dated
28.01.2009).][Substituted by Notification No. TNERC/SC/7-36 dated 01-07-2014.]

