## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
(Reservation of Seats In Private Educational Institutions) Act, 2006

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
(Reservation of Seats In Private Educational Institutions) Act, 2006

## Act 12 of 2006

  * Published on 7 June 2006 
  * Commenced on 7 June 2006 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 June 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
(Reservation of Seats In Private Educational Institutions) Act, 2006Tamil Nadu
Act 12 of 2006Statement of Objects and Reasons. - Clause (5) of Article 15 of
the Constitution of India enables the State Government to make any special
provision, by law, for the advancement of any socially and educationally
Backward Classes of Citizens or for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled
Tribes in so far as such special provisions relate to their admission to
educational Institutions including private educational institutions, whether
aided or unaided by the State, other than the minority educational
institutions referred to in clause (1) of Article 30 of the Constitution of
India. Accordingly, the Government have decided to bring out a legislation to
make special provision for reservation of seals for Backward Classes of
citizens or for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes for admission
into private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the
Government other than the minority educational institutions referred to in
clause (1) of Article 30 of the Constitution of India.2\. The Bill seeks to
give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 7th june 2006.An Act to
provide for reservation of seats in private educational institutions in the
State for the Backward Classes of citizens and for persons belonging to the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the State of Tamil Nadu.Whereas,
the policy of reservation for the social, economic and educational advancement
of the people belonging to Backward classes of citizens in admissions to
educational institutions in the State has been under implementation in the
State of Tamil Nadu for a long time;And Whereas, the State of Tamil Nadu is a
pioneer State in providing reservation for the underprivileged and the first
communal Government Order was passed in the year 1921 and the proportional
representation for communities was made in the year 1927 in the Slate of Tamil
Nadu.And Whereas, a large percentage of population of Tamil Nadu suffering
from social and educational backwardness for many years have started enjoying
the fruits of the reservation policy and have been able to improve their lot
and attain a higher standard of living;And Whereas, the Tamil Nadu Legislature
passed the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
(Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and or appointments or posts
in Services under the State) Act, 1993;And Whereas, the Constitution (Seventy-
sixth Amendment) Act, 1994, added the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of seats in Educational Institutions
and or appointments or posts in Services under the State) Act, 1993 enacted by
the Tamil Nadu Legislature, to the IXth Schedule, so as to give protection to
the Stale Act under Article 31-B of the Constitution superseding the decision
of the Supreme Court fixing a ceiling of 50% under Article 16(4) on the State
forwarding the aforesaid Act to the Centre under Article 3'1-C of the
constitution;And Whereas, under clause (1) of Article 38 of the Constitution,
the State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and
protecting as effectively as it may, a social order in which justice, social,
economic and political shall inform all the institutions of the national
life;And Whereas, under clause (2) of Article 38 of the Constitution, the
State shall, in particular, strive to minimise the inequalities in income and
endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities,
not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people residing in
different areas or engaged in different vocations;And Whereas, under Article
46 of the Constitution, the State shall promote, with special care, the
educational and economic interest of the weaker sections of the people, and,
in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect
them from social injustice and all forms of exploitations.And Whereas, the
93rd Constitution Amendment incorporating clause (5) of Article 15 of the
Constitution enables the making of any special provisions, by law, for the
advancement of any socially and educationally Backward Classes of citizens or
for the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes in so far as such special
provisions relate to their admission to educational institutions, including
private educational institutions whether aided or unaided by the State other
than minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1), Article 30
of the Constitution;And Whereas, it has been decided to require reservations
to be applied for aided, unaided and deemed Universities;Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-seventh Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes
and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Private Educational
Institutions) Act, 2006.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Backward Classes of
citizens" means the class or classes of citizens who are socially and
educationally backward notified by the Government in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette and includes the Most Backward Classes and the Denotified
Communities;(b)"competent authority" means the competent authority appointed
by the Government under section 6;(c)"Government" means the State
Government;(d)"private educational institution" means any deemed University or
any private college or other private educational institution, including any
institute or training center recognised or approved by the Government, whether
aided or unaided by the State, other than the minority educational institution
referred to in clause (1) a of Article 30 of the Constitution established with
the object of preparing, training or guiding its students for any certificate,
degree or diploma or other academic distinctions granted or conferred by any
University or authority established or approved in this behalf by the
Government;(e)"prescribed" means prescribed by the rules made under this
Act;(f)"Scheduled Castes" shall have the same meaning as in the
Constitution;(g)"Scheduled Tribes" shall have the same meaning as in the
Constitution.

### 3. Reservation of seats in private educational institutions.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any
Court or other authority, having regard to the social and educational
backwardness of the Backward Classes of citizens and the persons belonging to
the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes who constitute the majority of
the total population of the State of Tamil Nadu, the reservation in respect of
the annual permitted strength in each branch or faculty for admission into
private educational institutions in the State, for the Backward Classes of
citizens and for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes, shall be sixty-nine percent.(2)The reservation referred to
in sub-section (1) shall, in respect of the persons belonging to the Backward
Classes, the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities, the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, be as hereunder:-

(a) | Backward Classes | Thirty per cent.  
---|---|---  
(b) | Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities | Twenty per cent.  
(c) | Scheduled Castes | Eighteen per cent  
(d) | Scheduled Tribes | One per cent.  
  
### 4. Reservations not to be affected.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, the claims of the students
belonging to the Backward Classes of citizens or the Scheduled Castes or the
Scheduled Tribes, shall also be considered for the unreserved seats, and where
a student belonging to the Backward Classes of citizens or the Scheduled
Castes or the Scheduled Tribes, is selected on the basis of merit, the number
of seats reserved for the Backward Classes of citizens or for the persons
belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes, as the case may be,
shall not, in any way, be affected.

### 5. Classification of Backward Classes of citizens.

\- The Government may, from time to time, based on the reports presented at
the appropriate periods to the Government by the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes
Commission constituted in G. O. Ms. No. 9, Backward Classes and Most Backward
Classes Welfare Department, dated the 15th day of March 1993, by notification,
classify or sub-classify the Backward Classes of citizens for the purposes of
this Act.

### 6. Competent authority.

(1)The Government may, by notification, appoint any officer not below the rank
of District Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Officer to be the
competent authority for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this
Act and the rules made thereunder and different competent authorities may be
appointed for different areas.(2)The competent authority shall exercise such
powers and perform such functions as may be prescribed.

### 7. Power of Government to give direction.

(1)The Government may, in the public interest, by. order, direct the competent
authority to make an enquiry or to take appropriate proceedings under this Act
in any case specified in the order, and the competent authority shall report
to the Government the result of the enquiry made or the proceedings taken by
him within such period as may be prescribed.(2)On receipt of the report from
the competent authority under sub-section (1), the Government shall give such
direction as they deem fit and such direction shall be final and binding.

### 8. Competent authority to be public servant.

\- The competent authority appointed under section 6 shall be deemed to be a
public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code
(Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 9. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
competent authority, Government or its Officers for any thing which is, in
good faith, done or intended to be done under this Act or any rule or order
made thereunder.

### 10. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(3)Every rule made or notification or order issued
under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be
placed on the Table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any such rule or notification or order, or the Assembly
decides that the rule or notification or order should not be made or issued,
the rule or notification or order shall, thereafter, have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification or order.

### 11. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two
years from the date of commencement of this Act.

