## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960

## Act 18 of 1960

  * Published on 24 September 1960 
  * Commenced on 24 September 1960 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 September 1960.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960Act No. 18 of
1960Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1960). - The Madras Buildings (Lease
and Rent Control) Act, 1949 (Madras Act XXV of 1949), came into force on the
14th December 1949. It was amended by Madras Act VIII of 1951 to remove
certain difficulties experienced in the working of the Act. To remove certain
other practical difficulties which were experienced later, an amending Bill
was prepared with a view to extend the life of the Act beyond the 30th
September 1955 for a further period of two years and to amend certain
provisions of the Act. This combined Bill could not be introduced, as
amendments to the several sections could not be finalised in time and,
therefore, the Bill was split up and a separate Bill was introduced in the
Legislature in 1955 extending the life of the Act alone which was enacted as
Madras Act XXVI of 1955. During the discussion of the above Bill in the
Legislature, the Members of the Legislature suggested that certain provisions
of the principal Act should be amended so as to remove the difficulties
experienced in the working of the Act and the Minister in, charge gave an
assurance on the floor of the Mouse that a comprehensive Bill would be
introduced in the Legislature separately to remove the difficulties. An
amending Bill was introduced in the Legislative Assembly on the 26th December
1956. However, its consideration was deferred with the permission of the House
till after the formation of a new Ministry in 1957. This Bill lapsed
consequent on the dissolution of the Legislature under the provisions of
Article 196 (5) of the Constitution. Before the Bill could be re-published and
introduced in the Legislature, the life of the Act had to be extended for a
further period of two years, from the 1st October 1957 to the 30th September,
1959. This was done by the Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment
Act, 1957 (Madras Act XII of 1957). During the debate on the above Act, in its
Bill stage, Members of the Legislature made some suggestions for amendments of
certain provisions of the Act and the Minister for Electricity gave an
assurance that he would have these suggestions examined along with other
amendments already decided upon and introduce a comprehensive Bill. The
present Bill has been drafted accordingly for introduction in the
Legislature.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and
Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1962 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1962). - Under the
Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Bill, 1961, which was
introduced in the Legislative Assembly on the 13th November 1961, it was
proposed to take away the exemption granted to buildings referred to in
clauses (ii) and (iii) of section 30 of the Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Act, 1960. The Select Committee of the Legislative Assembly to which
the Bill was referred to decided that the exemption under clauses (ii) and
(iii) aforesaid should be on the basis of rent paid by the tenants and that
the protection under the Act should not be extended to a tenant paying a
monthly rent exceeding two Hundred to a tenant paying a monthly rent exceeding
two hundred and fifty rupees in the case of a residential building or part
thereof and four hundred rupees in the case of a non-residential building or
part thereof. The Bill seeks to amend the principal Act to give effect to the
decision of the Select Committee.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Second Amendment Act, 1962. - Section 30 of
the Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (Madras Act 18 of
1960) as amended by Act 2 of 1962 exempts from the provisions of the Act, the
following categories of buildings, namely:-(i) building the construction of
which was, after the date of the commencement of this Act, completed and
notified to the local authority concerned; or(ii) any residential building or
part thereof occupied by any one tenant if the monthly rent paid by him in
respect of that building or part exceeds two hundred and fifty rupees; or(iii)
any non-residential building or part thereof occupied by anyone tenant if the
monthly rent paid by him in respect of that building or part exceeds four
hundred rupees.In the actual working of the provisions of the Act, it is
observed that landlords have taken undue advantage of the provisions in
clauses (ii) and (iii) of section 30. The tenants are put to much hardship as
exorbitant rents are being demanded. It is necessary that the hardship caused
to the tenants should be removed. It is, however, necessary to retain the
exemption in respect of new buildings the construction of which has been
completed and notified to the local authority concerned, after the
commencement of the Madras Act 18 of 1960. The Bill, therefore, seeks to
achieve the objects by deleting clauses (ii) and (iii) and retaining clause
(i).Published in Part IV - Section 3 of the Fort St. George Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 7th November 1962. (Page 240).Statement of Objects
and Reasons - The Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act,
1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1963) - The Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Act, 1960 (Madras Act 18 of 1960), as it now stands, is due to expire
on the 30th September 1963. There is still shortage of accommodation
(residential and non-residential) and the housing position has not improved
even now. It is, therefore, considered necessary to extent the life of Madras
Act 18 of 1960 for a period of two years beyond the 30th September 1963. The
Bill seeks to give effect to the above object.Published in Part IV-Section 3
of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th August
1963.Statement of Objects and Reasons - The Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and
Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1964). - The Madras
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (Madras Act 18 of 1960), relates
to the regulation of the letting of residential and non-residential buildings
and the control of rents of such buildings and the prevention of unreasonable
eviction of tenants therefrom in the State of Madras. Under section 30 of the
said Act, certain buildings are exempted from the provisions of the said Act.
Any non-residential building or part thereof occupied by anyone tenant if the
monthly rent paid by him in respect of that building or part exceeds four
hundred rupees, is one such building or part exempted under the said section
30. It has been brought to the notice of the Government that the landlords of
such non-residential buildings, taking advantage of the exemption, referred to
above, demand exorbitant rents from the tenants of such buildings, who mostly
belong to the business community, and threaten to evict the tenants when the
latter do not concede the demands for such rents. In order to provide relief
to such tenants and to ensure that the interests of trade and industries do
not suffer by demands of land lords for unreasonable and exorbitant rents, the
Government consider that the exemption now available to any non-residential
building or part thereof fetching a monthly rent exceeding four hundred rupees
should be f withdrawn. At the same time, the Government consider that there is
no need to take away the exemption available at present to any residential
building or part thereof fetching a monthly rent exceeding two hundred and
fifty rupees.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part
IV-Section 3 of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th
March, 1964.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and
Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1972). - The Committee
constituted to examine the various provisions of the Tamil Nadu Buildings
(Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1960), including the
need for continuing the Act, and to suggest suitable amendments, has submitted
its report in January 1971. The Committee has made certain important
suggestions of a comprehensive nature which are under the active consideration
of the Government. It will take some more time for the Government to take
final decisions and bring forward a comprehensive measure. The life of the
Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1960 is due to expire on the 30th September 1972. It may
not be possible to bring the comprehensive legislation as an Act before the
30th September 1972. It is, therefore, considered necessary to extent the life
of the said Act fora further period of nine months, that is, up to and
inclusive of the 30th June 1973.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
object.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973). - The Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960, came into force on the 31st
September 1960 and its life was extended, from time to time. The life of the
Act will expire on the 30th September 1972 and legislation has been undertaken
to extend the life of the Act for a further period of nine months. In November
1969, the Government constituted a committee of officials to examine the
various provisions of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act,
1960, more particularly those relating to fixation of fair rent to buildings
and suggest suitable amendments. The Committee was also requested to examine
the necessity for continuing the Act, including the provisions relating to
accommodation control.2\. The Committee submitted its report to the Government
on the 21st January 1971. The Committee suggested a number of amendments of a
comprehensive nature. The amendments have been examined in detail and the
Government have decided to accept most of the amendments suggested by the
Committee.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Received the
assent of the President on the 24th September 1960 and first published in the
Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 30th September 1960.An Act to
amend and consolidate the law relating to the regulation of the letting of
residential and non-residential buildings and the control of rents of such
buildings and the prevention of unreasonable eviction of tenants therefrom in
the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws orders, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adapation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient to
amend and consolidate the law relating to the regulation of the letting of
residential and non-residential buildings and the control of rents of such
buildings and the prevention of unreasonable eviction of tenants therefrom in
the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws orders, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adapation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Be it enacted in the
Eleventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, application [and commencement] [Substituted for the words
'commencement and duration' by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.].

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amendment) Order, 1969.] Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Act, 1960.(2)[(i)] [Clause (a) of sub-section (2) was renumbered as
sub-clause (i) of that sub-section by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973, with effect
from 30.6.1973.] This Act [except sub-section (2) of section 3] [Substituted
for 'except sub-sections (2) and (8) of section 3 by section 2(2)(a)(i)(A)'
Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973, with effect from 30.6.1973.] shall apply to the
City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Act 28
of 1996.] [and to the City of Madurai] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973,
w.e.f. 30.6.1973.] and to all municipalities constituted or deemed to have
been constituted under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amendment) Order, 1969.] District Municipalities Act,
1920 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (2nd Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act V of 1920) in the State:Provided that
the Government may, by notification, direct that this Act shall cease to apply
to any municipality specified therein or to the City of [Chennai] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] [or to the City of Madurai] [Inserted by section
2(2)(i)(C) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act,
1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).] from such date as may be mentioned in the
notification.(ii)[ Where this Act had, under the provision to sub-clause (i)
ceased to apply to any such municipality or city as is mentioned in that
proviso, the Government may, by notification, apply this Act, except sub-
section (2) of section 3, to any such municipality or city with effect from
such date as may be specified in the notification.] [This sub-clause was
inserted by section 2(2)(a)(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).](b)[Sub-section (2)
of section 3] [Substituted for the words, brackets and figures 'sub-sections
(2) and (8) of section 3' by section 2(2)(b)(i) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings
(Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).]
shall apply to the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
[or to the City of Madurai] or any municipality constituted or deemed to have
been constituted under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amendment) Order, 1969.] District Municipalities Act,
1920 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (2nd Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act V of 1920) in the State only from such
date as the Government may, by notification, appoint [and the Government may
cancel or modify any such notification] [Inserted by section 2(2)(b)(ii) by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amendment) Order, 1969.].(c)The Government may, by
notification, apply all or any of the provisions of this Act except sub-
section (2) of section 3, to any other area in the State with effect from such
date as may be specified in the notification, and may cancel or modify any
such notification.(d)[ Upon the issue of a notification under the proviso to
sub-clause (i) of clause (a) or of a notification of cancellation under clause
(b) or clause (c), this Act, or, as the case may be, the provision thereof,
shall cease to apply, except as respects things done or omitted to be done
before such cesser; and section 8 of the Tamil Nadu General Clauses Act, 1891
(Tamil Nadu Act I of 1891), shall apply upon such cesser as if this Act or
such provision had then been repealed by a Tamil Nadu Act; but such cesser
shall not be deemed to affect the power of the Government under sub-clause
(ii) of clause (a) or under clause (b) or clause (c) again to apply this Act
or any such provision to any area mentioned in that sub-clause or clause.]
[This sub-clause was inserted by section 2(2)(a)(ii) of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).]

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"authorized officer"
means any officer authorized by the Government under sub-section (1) of
section 3;(2)"building" means any building or hut or part of a building or
hut, let or to be let separately for residential or non-residential purposes
and includes-(a)the garden, grounds and out-houses, if any, appurtenant to
such building, or hut and let or to be let along with such building or hut,
but does not include a room in a hotel or boarding house;(b)any furniture
supplied to the landlord for use in such building or hut or part of a building
or hut, but does not include a room in a hotel or boarding house;(3)[
"Controller" means any person appointed by the Government by notification, to
exercise the powers of a controller under this Act for such area as may be
specified in the notification;] [Clause (3) was substituted by section 3(1) of
the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil
Nadu Act 23 of 1973).](4)"date of the commencement of this Act" means-(a)in
relation to the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
and to all municipalities constituted or deemed to have been constituted under
the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (2nd Amendment) Order, 1969.] District Municipalities Act, 1920) (Tamil
Nadu] Act V of 1920), the date on which this Act is published in the [Fort St.
George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] [...] [The word 'and'
was omitted by section 3(2)(i) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).].(aa)[ in relation
to the City of Madurai, the first day of May 1971, and] [Inserted by section
3(2)(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act,
1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).](b)in relation to any other area, the date
specified in the notification under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section
1;(5)"Government" means the State Government;(6)"landlord" includes the person
who is receiving or is entitled to receive the rent of a building, whether on
his own account or on behalf of another or on behalf of himself and others or
as an agent, trustee, executor, administrator, receiver or guardian or who
would so receive the rent or be entitled to receive the rent, if the building
were let to a tenant.Explanation. - A tenant who sub-lets shall be deemed to
be a landlord within the meaning of this Act, in relation to the sub-
tenant.(6A)[ "member of his family" in relation to a landlord means his
spouse, son, daughter, grand-child or dependent parent;] [This clause was
inserted by section 3(3) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control)
Amendments Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).](7)"repairs" means the
restoration of a building to a sound or good state after decay or injury, but
does not include additions, improvements or alterations except in so far as
they are necessary to carry out such restoration;(8)[ "tenant" means any
person by whom or on whose account rent is payable for a building and includes
the surviving spouse, or any son, or daughter, or the legal representative of
a deceased tenant who-] [Substituted by section 3(4) of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendments Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).](i)in the case of residential building, had been living with the tenant
in the building as a member of the tenant's family up to the death of the
tenant, and(ii)in the case of a non-residential building, had been in
continuous association with the tenant for the purpose of carrying on the
business of the tenant up to the death of the tenant and continues to carry on
such business thereafter, and a person continuing in the possession after the
termination of the tenancy in his favour, but does not include a person placed
in occupation of a building by its tenant or a person to whom the collection
of rents or fees in a public market, cart-stand or slaughter house or of rents
for shops has been formed out or leased by a municipal council or a panchayat
union council for the municipal corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1996).] or the municipal corporation of Madurai.

### 3. Notice of vacancy.

(1)(a)(i)Every landlord shall, within seven days after the building becomes
vacant,-(A)by his ceasing to occupy it, or(B)by the termination of tenancy,
or(C)by the eviction of the tenant, or(D)where any such building has been
requisitioned under any law for the time being in force other than this Act,
by release from such requisition, give notice of the vacancy in writing to the
officer authorised in that behalf by the Government.(ii)Every tenant shall,
within seven days after the building becomes vacant, by his ceasing to occupy
it or by the termination of his tenancy, give notice of the vacancy in writing
to the officer authorized in that behalf by the Government.Explanation I. - A
landlord who, having obtained possession-(i)of a residential building under
sub-section (3) of section 10 lets the [whole or part] [Substituted for the
word 'whole' by section 4(l)(i) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).] of it to a tenant;
or(ii)of a non-residential building under sub-section (3) of section 10 lets
the whole or part of it to a tenant, shall be deemed to have failed to give
notice under this section.Explanation II. - A buyer-(i)who having obtained
vacant possession of a building in pursuance of a sale of such building, lets,
the [whole or part] [Substituted for the word 'whole' by the Tamil Nadu Act 23
of 1973.] of it to a tenant, or allows the [whole or part] [Substituted for
the word 'whole' by the Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] to be occupied by any
person; or(ii)who, without obtaining such vacant possession, allows the seller
to occupy the Substituted for the word 'whole" by section 4(l)(i) of the Tamil
Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23
of 1973). [whole or part] [Substituted for the word 'whole' by the Tamil Nadu
Act 23 of 1973.] of the building, shall be deemed to have failed to give
notice under this section.(b)Every notice given under clause (a) shall contain
such particulars as may be prescribed.[(1-A) No landlord, whose building has
become vacant consequent on,-(a)the termination of a tenancy, or(b)the
eviction of the tenant, or(c)the release from requisition, where any building
has been requisitioned under any law for the time being in force other than
this Act, whether or not notice of vacancy under sub-section (1) was given by
him, shall occupy himself the whole or part of it, or let the whole or part of
it to a tenant or allow the whole or part of it to be occupied by any person
and any officer empowered by the Government in this behalf may summarily
dispossess-(i)any landlord occupying such building, and(ii)any tenant or other
person to whom the building was let out or allowed by the landlord for
occupation, in contravention of the provisions of this sub-section, and the
said officer may take possession of the building including any portion thereof
which may have been occupied or let, as the case may be. The Government shall
be deemed to be the tenant of such building with effect from the date of
taking such possession.](2)[In the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the
words and bracket 'In any municipality (including the City of Madras)' by
Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] or in the City of Madurai or in any municipality]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1980.] to which this sub-section has been
applied under clause (b)of sub-section (2) of section 1, where the tenant of a
building puts another person in occupation thereof and does not re-occupy it
within a period of three months, then, on the expiry of such period, the
tenancy shall be deemed to have been terminated and it shall be the duty of
the tenant, and also of the landlord if he is aware of such termination, to
give notice thereof in writing to the authorized officer within seven days of
such termination:Provided that where the tenant obtains written permission
from the authorized officer to re-occupy the building within a period of six
months, this sub section shall have effect as if for the period of three
months specified therein a period of six months were substituted.Explanation.
- This sub-section shall not apply where the building has been sub-let by a
tenant entitled to do so, after giving due notice to the authorized officer
under sub-section (1) and in conformity with the provisions of this
section.(3)[If within ten days of the receipt by the authorized officer of a
notice from the landlord under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)]
[Substituted for the words, brackets and figure 'If, within seven days of the
receipt by the authorized officer of a notice under sub-section (1)' by
section 4(3) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment
Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).], the Government or the authorized
officer do or does not intimate to the landlord in writing that the building
is required for the purposes of the State or Central Government or of any
local authority or of any public institution under the control of any such
Government or for the occupation of any officer of such Government, the
landlord shall be at liberty to let the building to any tenant or to occupy it
himself.[(3-A) The Government may, on an application made by the landlord,
within fifteen days from the date of the communication of the intimation by
the authorized officer under sub-section (3) rectify any error apparent on the
face of the record.] [Inserted by section 4(4) by section 4(3) of the Tamil
Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23
of 1973).](4)Where intimation is given under sub-section (1), the landlord
shall not let the building to a tenant or occupy it himself or use or permit
the use of the building in any manner by any other person before the expiry of
this period of [ten days] [Substituted for the words 'seven days' by section
4(5) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).] specified in sub-section (3), unless in the mean
time he has received intimation from the authorized officer that the building
is not required for the purposes, or for occupation by any of the officers,
specified in that sub-section.(5)If the building is required for any of the
purposes, or for occupation by any of the officers specified in sub-section
(3), the landlord shall deliver possession of the building and the fixtures
and fittings in or on the buildings, in good tenantable repairs and condition,
to the authorized officer, or to the allottee named by the authorized officer,
as the case may be, and the Government shall be deemed to be the tenant of the
landlord, with retrospective effect from the date on which the authorized
officer received notice under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the terms of
the tenancy being such as may be agreed upon between the landlord and the
tenant and if default of an agreement, as may be determined by the
Controller:Provided that where the landlord fails to deliver possession of the
building to the authorized officer within forty-eight hours of the receipt of
the intimation that the building is required for any of the purposes, or for
occupation by any of the officers specified in sub-section (3), or within such
further time as the authorized officer may by order in writing allow, the
Government shall be deemed to be the tenant of the landlord only from the date
on which he delivers possession:Provided further that where owing to any
omission or act or obstructive or preventive tactics on the part of the
landlord there has been delay in coming to a decision whether or not the
building is required for any of the purposes, or for occupation by any of the
officers specified in sub-section (3), the Government shall be deemed to be
the tenant of the landlord only from such later date as may be fixed by the
authorized officer having regard to the circumstances of each case:Provided
also that the rent payable shall be the fair rent, if any, fixed for the
building under the provisions of this Act; and if no fair rent has been so
fixed, such reasonable rent as the authorized officer may determine, in such
manner as may be prescribed:Provided also that the reasonable rent fixed by
the authorized officer under the foregoing provision shall be subject to such
fair rent as may be fixed by the Controller.Explanation. - Where before the
fixation of fair rent, rent has been paid in excess thereof, the refund or
adjustment shall have retrospective effect from the date on which the
Government shall be deemed to be the tenant of the landlord, provided the
application for fixation of fair rent is made within a period of ninety days
from such date; where such application is made after the said period of ninety
days, the refund or adjustment shall be limited to the amount paid in excess
for the period commencing on the date of application by the tenant or landlord
for the fixation of fair rent and ending with the date of such
fixation:Provided also that on the delivery of possession of the building, the
allottee shall pay rent to the landlord proportionately for any part of the
calendar month of his occupation, and in advance on or before the 5th day of
each calendar month:Provided also that no structural alterations shall be made
in the building, unless the consent of the landlord is obtained
therefor.(6)If, in the case of a residential building, the possession of which
has been delivered to the authorized officer under sub-section (5) and in the
occupation of an officer of the State or Central Government, the fair rent is
subsequently fixed at an amount not exceeding twenty-five rupees per month,
the said officer shall be deemed to have become the tenant of the landlord on
the date on which such fair rent is fixed on the same terms, except as to
rent, as obtained between the landlord and the Government on the said
date.(7)In cases not falling under sub-section (5), where the landlord lets
the building to any tenant after giving notice to the authorized officer under
subsection (1) or sub-section (2) and without having occupied the building
himself, or used or permitted the use of the building in any manner by any
other person, the tenancy shall be deemed to have been antedated by the number
of days during which the landlord was prohibited from letting the building to
any tenant by virtue of sub-section (4), and the tenant shall be liable to pay
rent for those days also.(8)Omitted fry section 4(6) of the Tamil Nadu
Building, (Lease and Rent Control Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).(9)(a)(i)Any office re empowered by the Government in this behalf may
summarily dispossess any landlord, tenant or other person occupying any
building in contravention of the provisions of this section or any landlord
who fails to deliver to the Government possession of any building in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (5) and may take possession of
the building including any portion thereof which may have been sub-let. The
Government shall be deemed to be the tenant of such building with effect from
the date of taking such possession.(ii)Any such officer as is referred to in
sub-clause (i) [or under sub-section (1-A)] [Inserted by section 2(2)(b) of
the Tamil Nadu Building (Lease and Bent Control) Amendment Act, 1979 (Tamil
Nadu Act 1 of 1980).] may summarily dispossess any officer, local authority or
public institution continuing to occupy, or failing to deliver possession of,
any building in respect of which the Government shall be deemed to be the
tenant by virtue of this section, after the termination of his or its licence
to occupy such building and take possession of the building including any
portion thereof which may have been sub-let.[.......] [Proviso and the
Explanations were omitted by section 4(7)(i) of the Tamil Nadu Building (Lease
and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).](b)If free
access to the buildings is not afforded to the officer empowered under sub-
clause (i) of clause (a), [or under sub-section (1-A)] [Inserted by section
2(2)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Building (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Art,
1979(Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1980).] he may, at any time after sunrise and before
sunset, and after giving reasonable warning and facility to withdraw to any
women not appearing in public according to the customs of the country, remove
or open any lock or bolt or break open any door or do any other act necessary
for effecting such dispossession.(c)Any landlord, tenant, or other person or
any officer, local authority or public institution, liable to be summarily
dispossessed under clause (a) I [or under sub-section (1-A)] [Inserted by
section 2(2)(c) of the Tamil Nadu Building (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment
Art, 1979(Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1980).] shall pay to the Government -(i)The fair
rent payable for the building under the provisions of this Act for the period
of his or its occupation or possession thereof as described in the clause,
whether such period was before or after the date of the commencement of this
Act; and(ii)the expenses, if any, incurred by the Government in effecting such
summary dispossession, as determined by them (which determination shall be
final)(d)[ (i) If the [.....] [Added by section 4(7)(ii) of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).] officer who takes possession of the building under clause (a) [or
under sub-section (1-A)] [Inserted by section 2(2)(d)(i)(B) of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of
1980).], is of the opinion that the building is not in a tenant table
condition, he may prepare or cause to be prepared an estimate of the repairs
necessary to make the building tenantable and give notice to the landlord to
carry out the repairs within a reasonable time.(ii)If the landlord fails to
make necessary repairs to the building within such reasonable time, the [said]
[Substituted for 'authorised' of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Amendment Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1980).] officer may make
such repairs, or allot the building subject to the condition that the allottee
shall carry out the repairs according to the aforesaid estimate and deduct the
cost of such repairs from the rent payable to the landlord in such monthly
installment as may be specified by the [said officer] [Substituted for the
words 'authorised officer' by section 2(2)(d)(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings
(Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of
1980).]:Provided that in no case such monthly installment shall exceed one-
half of the monthly rent payable by the tenant.](10)Nothing contained in this
section shall apply-(a)to a residential building the monthly rent of which
does not exceed twenty-five rupees; or(b)to a non-residential building, the
monthly rent of which does not exceed fifty rupees; or(c)to a residential
building, a part only of which is occupied by the full owner and the whole or
any portion of the remaining part of such building is let to any
tenant;[Provided that this clause shall not apply to any building, if-(i)the
portions occupied by the full owner and the tenant are self-contained and
separate units; or(ii)the full owner does not actually occupy the building for
residential purposes; or(iii)the full owner is in actual occupation of another
residential building; or](d)to any building or buildings in the same city,
town or village, owned by any company, association or firm, whether
incorporated or not, and bona fide intended solely for the occupation of its
officer, servants or agents.Explanation. - In clause (c) "full owner" means a
person entitled to the absolute proprietorship of the building.

### 3A. [ Release of building. [Inserted by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).]

(1)A landlord may apply to the authorized officer for the release of a
building in respect of which a notice has been given under sub-section (1) of
section 3 or in respect of which, the Government are, under sub-section (5) of
section 3, deemed to be the tenant if-(a)in the case of a residential
building, the landlord requires it for his own occupation or for the
occupation of any member of his family and the landlord or the member of his
family is not occupying any residential building of his own in the city, town
or village concerned;(b)in the case of a non-residential building which is
used for the purpose of keeping a vehicle or adapted for such use, the
landlord requires it for his own use or for the use of any member of his
family and the landlord or the member of his family is not using any such
building of his own in the city, town or village concerned;(c)in the case of
any non-residential building other than the non-residential building mentioned
in clause (b), the landlord or any other member of his family requires it for
the purpose of his business and the landlord or the member of his family does
not occupy any such non-residential building of his own for the purpose of his
business in the city, town or village concerned; or(d)the building, whether
residential or non-residential, whose landlord is a religious, charitable,
educational or other public institution, is required for the purposes of such
institution.(2)The authorized officer may, if he is satisfied that the claim
of the landlord is bona fide and reasonable, make an order releasing the
building subject to such conditions and restrictions as he may think fit and
if he is not so satisfied make an order rejecting the application made under
sub-section (1).(3)Any person who is aggrieved by an order passed by the
authorized officer under sub-section (2) may, within fifteen days from the
date of receipt of such order, prefer an appeal to the Government and the
Government shall pass such order as they deem fit and on such appeal being
preferred, the Government may order stay of further proceedings in the matter
pending decision on the appeal.(4)A building released in pursuance of an order
made under sub-section (2) shall, within thirty days of the date of the
receipt of the order or such further period as may be allowed by the
authorized officer, be occupied by the landlord or by the member of his family
for whose occupation the building was required to be released or shall be put
to such use for which the release was obtained.(5)Where a building released
under sub-section (2) has not been occupied by the landlord or by the member
of his family or has not been put to such use for which the release was
obtained within the period specified in sub-section (4), but is either let out
or kept vacant tire whole or any part of the building, or put to use other
than the one of which the release was obtained, such building shall be deemed
to have become vacant from the date of the expiry of the period specified in
sub-section (4) and the provisions of [sub-sections (1), (1-A), (3), (4), (5),
(7) and (9) of section 3] [Added by section 4(8) of the 'Tamil Nadu Buildings
(Lease and Rent-Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).]
shall apply to such building.]

### 4. [ Fixation of fair rent. [Substituted by section 6 of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).] \- (1) The Controller shall, on application made by the tenant or the
landlord of a building and after holding such enquiry as he thinks fit, fix
the fair rent for such building in accordance with the principles set out in
the following sub-sections.

(2)The fair rent for any residential building shall be nine per cent gross
return per annum on the total cost of such building.(3)The fair rent for any
non-residential building shall be twelve per cent gross return per annum on
the total cost of such building.(4)The total cost referred to in sub-section
(2) and sub-section (3) shall consist of the market value of the site in which
the building is constructed/ the cost of construction of the building and the
cost of provision of any one or more of the amenities specified in Schedule as
on the date of application for fixation of fair rent:Provided that while
calculating the market value of the site in which the building is constructed,
the Controller shall take into account only that portion of the site on which
the building is constructed and of a portion up to fifty per cent thereof the
vacant land, if any, appurtenant to such building, the excess portion of the
vacant land, being treated as amenity:Provided further that the cost of
provision of amenities specified in Schedule shall not exceed-(i)in the case
of any residential building, fifteen per cent; and(ii)in the case of any non-
residential building, twenty-five per cent, of the cost of site in which the
building is constructed, and the cost of construction of the building as
determined under this section.(5)(a)The cost of construction of the building
including cost of internal water-supply, sanitary and electrical installations
shall be determined with due regard to the rates adopted for the purpose of
estimation by the Public Works Department of the Government for the area
concerned. The Controller may, in appropriate cases, allow or disallow an
amount not exceeding thirty per cent, of the cost of construction having
regard to the nature of construction of the building.(b)The Controller shall
deduct from the cost of construction determined in the manner specified in
clause (a), depreciation calculated at the rates specified in Schedule II.]

### 5. Change in fair rent in what cases admissible.

(1)When the fair rent of a building has been fixed [or refixed] [Inserted by
section 7(1) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment
Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 73 of 1973).] under this Act, no further increase in
such fair rent shall be permissible-except in cases where some addition,
improvement or alteration has been carried out at the land lord's expense and
if the building is then in the occupation of a tenant, at his request:Provided
that the fair rent as increased under this sub-section shall not exceed the
fair rent payable under this Act for a similar building in the same locality
with such addition, improvement or alteration and it shall not be chargeable
until such addition, improvement or alteration has been completed:Provided
further that any dispute between the landlord and the tenant in regard to any
increase claimed under this sub-section shall be decided by the
Controller.(2)Where, after the fair rent of a building has been fixed under
this Act, there is a decrease or diminution in the accommodation or amenities
provided, the tenant may claim a reduction in the fair rent as so
fixed:Provided that any dispute between the landlord and the tenant in regard
to any reduction so claimed shall be decided by the Controller.(3)[ Where the
fair rent of any building has been fixed before the date of the commencement
of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973), the landlord or the tenant may apply to the
Controller to refix the fair rent in accordance with the provisions of section
4 and, on such application, the Control may refix the fair rent.] [This sub-
section was added by section 7(2) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).]

### 6. Increase over rent in certain cases.

(1)Where the amount of the taxes and cesses payable (including any new tax or
cess which has become payable), by the landlord in respect of any building to
a local authority for any half-year commencing on the 1st April 1950, or any
later date exceeds the amount of the taxes and cesses payable in respect
thereof to the same or any other local authority for the half-year ending on
the 30th day of September 1946, or for the first complete half-year after the
date on which the building was first let, whichever is later, the landlord
shall be entitled to claim such excess from the tenant in addition to the rent
payable for the building under this Act:Provided that such excess shall not be
recoverable in so far as it has resulted from an increase of rent in respect
of the building.(2)Any dispute between the landlord and the tenant in regard
to any increase claimed under sub-section (1) shall be decided by the
Controller.

### 7. Landlord not to claim or receive any thing in excess of fair rent or
agreed rent.

(1)Where the Controller has fixed [or refixed] [Inserted by section 8(1) of
the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil
Nadu Act 23 of 1973).] the fair rent of a building-(a)the landlord shall not
claim, receive or stipulate for the payment of any premium or other like sum
in addition to such fair rent, or save as provided in section 5 or section 6,
anything in excess of such fair rent:Provided that the landlord may receive or
stipulate for the payment of an amount not exceeding one month's rent, by way
of advance;(b)save as provided in clause (a), any premium or other like sum or
any rent paid in addition to, or in excess of, such fair rent, whether before
or after the date of the commencement of this Act, in consideration of the
grant, continuance or renewal of the tenancy of the building after the date of
such commencement, shall be refunded by the landlord to the person by whom it
was paid or at the option of such person, shall be otherwise adjusted by the
landlord:[Provided that where before the fixation or refixation of the fair
rent, rent has been paid in excess thereof, the refund or adjustment shall be
limited to the amount paid in excess for the period commencing on the date of
the application by the tenant or landlord under sub-section (1) of section 4
or sub-section (3) of section 5, as the case may be, and ending with the date
of such fixation or refixation.] [Substituted by section 8(2) of the Tamil
Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23
of 1973).](2)Where the fair rent of a building has not been so fixed-(a)the
landlord shall not claim, receive or stipulate for the payment of, any premium
or other like sum in addition to the agreed rent: Provided that the landlord
may receive, or stipulate for the payment of, an amount not exceeding one
month's rent, by way of advance;(b)save as provided in clause (a), any sum
paid in excess of the agreed rent, whether before or after the date of the
commencement of this Act, in consideration of the grant, continuance or
renewal of the tenancy of the building after the date of such commencement,
shall be refunded by the landlord to the person by whom it was paid or, at the
option of such person, shall be otherwise adjusted by the landlord.(3)Any
stipulation in contravention of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be
null and void.

### 8. [Landlord liable to give receipt for rent or advance] [Substituted for
the marginal heading 'Right of tenant paying rent or advance to receipt' by
section 9(1) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment
Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).].

\- [(1) Every landlord who receives any payment towards rent by advance shall
issue a receipt duly signed by him for the actual amount of rent or advance
received by him.] [Substituted by section 9(2) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings
(Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).](2)Where a landlord refuses to accept, or evades the receipt of, any
rent lawfully payable to him by a tenant in respect of any building, the
tenant may, by notice in writing/ require the landlord to specify within ten
days from the date of receipt of the notice by him, a bank into which the rent
may be deposited by the tenant to the credit of the landlord:Provided that
such bank shall be one situated in the city, town or village in which the
building is situated or if there is no such bank in such city, town or
village, within [five kilo metres] [Substituted for the words 'three miles' by
section 9(3) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control)] Amendment
Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).] of the limits thereof.Explanation. -
It shall be open to the landlord to specify, from time to rime, by a written
notice to the tenant and subject to the proviso aforesaid, a bank different
from the one already specified by him under this sub-section.(3)If the
landlord specifies a bank as aforesaid, the tenant shall deposit the rent in
the bank and shall continue to deposit in it any rent which may subsequently
become due in respect of the building.(4)If the landlord does not specify a
bank as aforesaid, the tenant shall remit the rent to the landlord by money
order, after deducting the money order commission.(5)If the landlord refuses
to receive the rent remitted by money order under sub-section (4), the tenant
may deposit the rent before the Controller and continue to deposit with him
any rent which may subsequently become due in respect of the building.

### 9. Right of tenant to deposit rent in certain cases.

(1)Where the address of the landlord or his authorized agent is not known to
the tenant, he may deposit rent lawfully payable to the landlord in respect of
the building, before the Controller in such manner as may be prescribed, and
continue to deposit any rent which may subsequently become due in respect of
the building, before the Controller and in tire same manner until the address
of the landlord or his authorized agent becomes known to the tenant.(2)The
amount deposited under sub-section (3) or under sub-section (5) of section 8,
or under sub-section (1) of this section may, subject to such conditions as
may be prescribed, be withdrawn by the person held by the Controller to be
entitled to the amount on application made by such person to the Controller in
that behalf.(3)Where any bona fide doubt or dispute arises as to the person
who is entitled to receive the rent for any building, the tenant may deposit
such rent before such authority and in such manner as may be prescribed and
shall report to the Controller the circumstances under which such deposit was
made by him, and may continue to deposit any rent which may subsequently
become due in respect of the building before the same authority and in the
same manner until the doubt is removed or the dispute is settled by the
decision of a competent Court or by a settlement between the parties or until
the Controller makes an order under clause (b) of sub-section (4), as the case
may be.(4)(a)The Controller to whom a report is made under sub-section (3)
shall, if satisfied that a bona fide doubt or dispute exists in the matter,
direct that, pending removal of the doubt or settlement of the dispute as
aforesaid, the deposit be held by the authority concerned.(b)If the Controller
is not so satisfied, he shall forthwith order payment of the amount deposited
to the landlord.(5)Where the Controller passes an order under clause (a) of
sub-section (4), any amount deposited under sub-section (3) maybe withdrawn
only by the person who is declared by a competent Court to be entitled
thereto, or in case the doubt or dispute is removed by a settlement between
the parties, only by the person who is held by the Controller to be entitled
to the amount or amounts in accordance with such settlement.

### 10. Eviction of tenants.

(1)A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise
except in accordance with the provisions of this section or sections 14 to
16:Provided that nothing contained in the said sections shall apply to a
tenant whose landlord is the Government:Provided further that where the tenant
denies the title of the landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy, the
Controller shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if he
records a finding to that effect, the landlord shall be entitled to sue for
eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and the Court may pass a decree for
eviction on any of the grounds mentioned in the said sections, notwithstanding
that the Court finds that such denial does not involve forfeiture of the lease
or that the claim is unfounded.(2)A landlord who seeks to evict his tenant
shall apply to the Controller for a direction in that behalf. If the
Controller, after giving the tenant a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
against the application, is satisfied-(i)that the tenant has not paid or
tendered the rent due by him in respect of the building, within fifteen days
after the expiry of the time fixed in the agreement of tenancy with his
landlord or in the absence of any such agreement, by the last day of the month
next following that for which the rent is payable, or(ii)that the tenant has,
after the 23rd October 1945 without the written consent of the
landlord,-(a)transferred his right under the lease or sub-let the entire
building or any portion thereof, if the lease does not confer on him any right
to do so, or(b)used the building for a purpose other than that for which it
was leased, or(iii)that the tenant has committed or caused to be committed
such acts of waste as are likely to impair materially the value or utility of
the building, or(iv)that the tenant has been convicted under any law for the
time being in force of an offence of using the building or allowing the
building to be used for immoral or illegal purposes, or(v)that the tenant has
been guilty of such acts and conduct which are a nuisance to the occupiers of
other portions in the same building or of buildings in the neighbourhood,
or(vi)that where the building is situated in a place other than a hill-
station, the tenant has ceased to occupy the building for a continuous period
of four months without reasonable cause, or(vii)that the tenant has denied the
title of the landlord or claimed a right of permanent tenancy and that such
denial or claim was not bona fide, the Controller shall make an order
directing the tenant to put the landlord in possession of the building and if
the Controller is not so satisfied, he shall make an order rejecting the
application:Provided that in any case falling under clause (i) if the
Controller is satisfied that the tenant's default to pay or tender rent was
not willful, he may, notwithstanding anything contained in section 11, give
the tenant a reasonable time, not exceeding fifteen days, to pay or tender the
rent due by him to the landlord up to the date of such payment or tender and
on such payment or tender, the application shall be rejected.[Explanation.
[Explanation was added by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] \- For the purpose of
this sub-section, default to pay or tender rent shall be construed as willful,
if the default by the tenant in the payment or tender of rent continuous after
the issue of two months' notice by the landlord claiming the rent.](3)(a)A
landlord may, subject to the provisions of clause (d), apply to the Controller
for an order directing the tenant to put the landlord in possession of the
building-(i)in case it is a residential building, if the landlord requires it
for his own occupation or for the occupation of [any member of his family]
[Substituted for 'his son' by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] and if he or [any
member of his family] [Substituted for the words 'his son' by Tamil Nadu Act
23 of 1973.] is not occupying a residential building of his own in the city,
town or village concerned;(ii)in case it is a non-residential building which
is used for the purpose of keeping a vehicle or adopted for such use, if the
landlord requires it for his own use or for the use of [any member of his
family] [Substituted for 'his son' by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] and if he or
[any member of his family] [Substituted for 'his son' by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973.] is not occupying any such building in the city, town or village
concerned which is his own;(iii)in case it is any other non-residential
building, if the landlord or [any member of his family] [Substituted for the
words 'his son' by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] is not occupying for purposes
of a business which he or [any member of his family] [Substituted for the
words 'his son' by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] is carrying on, a non-
residential building in the city, town or village concerned which is his
own:Provided that a person who becomes a landlord after the commencement of
the tenancy by an instrument inter vivos shall not be entitled to apply under
this clause before the expiry of three months from the date on which the
instrument was registered:Provided further that where a landlord has obtained
possession of a building under this clause, he shall not be entitled to apply
again under this clause-(i)in case he has obtained possession of a residential
building, for possession of another residential building of his own;(ii)in
case he has obtained possession of a non-residential building, for possession
of another non-residential building of his own.(b)Where the landlord of a
building, whether residential or non-residential, is a religious, charitable,
educational, or other public institution, it may, if the building is required
for the purposes of the institution, apply to the Controller, subject to the
provisions of clause (d), for an order directing the tenant to put the
institution in possession of the building.(c)A landlord who is occupying only
a part of a building, whether residential or non-residential, may,
notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a), apply to the Controller for
an order directing any tenant occupying the whole or any portion of the
remaining part of the building to put the landlord in possession thereof, if
he requires additional accommodation for residential purposes or for purposes
of a business which he is carrying on, as the case may be.(d)Where the tenancy
is for a specified period agreed upon between the landlord and the tenant, the
landlord shall not be entitled to apply under this sub-section before the
expiry of such period.(e)The Controller shall, if he is satisfied that the
claim of the landlord is bona fide, make an order directing the tenant to put
the landlord in possession of the building on such date as may be specified by
the Controller and if the Controller is not so satisfied, he shall make an
order rejecting the application:Provided that in the case of an application
under clause (c), the Controller shall reject the application if he is
satisfied that the hardship which may be caused to the tenant by granting it
will outweigh the advantage to the landlord:Provided further that the
Controller may give the tenant a reasonable time for putting the landlord in
possession of the building and may extend such time so as not to exceed three
months in the aggregate.(3A)[ (a) Where the landlord has been or is a member
of the Armed Forces and-(i)is released or has retired from service and the
building is bona fidely required for his residence; or](ii)is stationed at a
place where on account of military exigencies, he cannot live with his family
or dies on active duty and the building is bona fidely required for the
residence of his family, the Controller shall, on application made by the
landlord or the member of his family, as the case may be, if he is satisfied
that the claim of the landlord or the member of his family is bona fide pass
an order directing the tenant to put the landlord or the member of his family
in possession of the building and if the Controller is not so satisfied, he
shall make an order rejecting the application.(b)Notwithstanding anything
contained in clause (a), where the landlord or the member of his family
produces a certificate from the prescribed authority under the Indian Soldiers
(Litigation) Act, 1925 (Central Act IV of 1925), that the landlord is serving
under special conditions within the meaning of section 3 of that Act, the
application referred to in clause (a) shall be disposed of, as far as may be,
within a period of one month and if the claim of the landlord or the member of
his family is accepted, the Controller shall pass an order directing the
tenant to put the landlord or the member of his family in possession of the
building on such date as may be specified in the order which shall not be
later than one month from the date of such order.Explanation. - For the
purpose of this sub-section, "member of the Armed Forces" means a person in
the service of the Air Force, Army or Navy of the Union of India and includes
a seaman and "seaman" means every person including a master, pilot or
apprentice employed or engaged as a member of the crew of a ship or a sailing
vessel to which the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (Central Act 44 of 195 8),
applies:Provided that if a question arises whether any person is a member of
the Armed Forces, such question shall be decided by the Controller and his
decision shall be final.(4)No order for eviction shall be passed under sub-
section (3)-(i)against any tenant who is engaged in employment or class of
employment notified by the Government as an essential service for the purpose
of this sub-section, unless the landlord is himself engaged in any employment
or class of employment which has been so notified, or(ii)in respect of any
building which has been let for use as an educational institution and is
actually being used as such, provided that the institution has been recognised
by the Government or any authority empowered by them in this behalf so long as
such recognition continues.(5)(a)Where a landlord who has obtained possession
of a building in pursuance of an order under sub-section (3) [or sub-section
(3-A)] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] does not himself occupy it
within one month of the date of obtaining possession or having so occupied it,
vacates it without reasonable cause within six months of such date, the tenant
who has been evicted may apply to the Controller for an order directing that
he shall be restored to possession of the building and the Controller shall
make an order accordingly, notwithstanding anything contained in section
3.(b)Where a tenant who is entitled to apply for possession under clause (a)
fails to do so within one month from the date on which the right to make the
application accrued to him, the Government or the authorized officer shall
have power, if the building is required for any of the purposes, or for
occupation by any of the officers specified in sub-section (3) of section 3 to
give intimation to the landlord that the building is so required, and
thereupon, the provisions of sub-sections (5) and (9) of section 3 shall apply
to the building:Provided that this clause shall not apply to a residential
building the monthly rent of which does not exceed twenty-five rupees or to a
non-residential building the monthly rent of which does not exceed fifty
rupees.(6)Where the Controller is satisfied that any application made by a
landlord for the eviction of a tenant is frivolous or vexatious, the
Controller may direct that compensation not exceeding fifty rupees be paid by
such landlord to the tenant.(7)Where an application under sub-section, (2) or
sub-section (3) or sub-section (3-A) for evicting a tenant has been rejected
by the Controller, the tenancy shall, subject to the provisions of this Act,
be deemed to continue on the same terms and conditions as before and shall not
be terminable by the landlord except on any of the grounds mentioned in sub-
section (2) or sub-section (3) or sub-section (3-A):Provided that nothing in
this sub-section shall be deemed to prevent a landlord who has made an
application for evicting a tenant on any of the grounds mentioned in sub-
section (2) or [sub-section (3) or sub-section (3-A)] [Substituted for the
word, brackets and figure 'sub-section (3)' by section 10(5) of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973, (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).] from applying again, when the previous application is pending to the
Controller for evicting the tenant on any of the other grounds mentioned in
sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) or sub-section (3-A).(8)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this section no person who is receiving or is entitled
to receive the rent of a building merely as an agent of the landlord shall,
except with the previous written consent of the landlord, be entitled to apply
for the eviction of a tenant.

### 11. Payment or deposit of rent during the pendency of proceedings for
eviction.

(1)No tenant against whom an application for eviction has been made by a
landlord under section 10 shall be entitled to contest the application before
the Controller under that section, or to prefer any appeal under section 23
against any order made by the Controller on the application unless he has paid
or pays to the landlord, or deposits with the Controller or the appellate
authority, as the case may be, all arrears of rent due in respect of the
building up to the date of payment or deposit, and continues to pay or to
deposit any rent which may subsequently become due in respect of the building
until the termination of the proceedings before the Controller or the
appellate authority, as the case may be.(2)The deposit of rent under sub-
section (1) shall be made within the time and in the manner
prescribed.(3)Where there is any dispute as to the amount of rent to be paid
or deposited under sub-section (1), the Controller or the appellate authority,
as the case may be, shall, on application made to him either by the tenant or
by the landlord, and after making such inquiry as he deems necessary,
determine summarily the rent to be so paid or deposited.(4)If any tenant fails
to pay or to deposit the rent as aforesaid, the Controller or the appellate
authority, as the case may be, shall, unless the tenant shows sufficient cause
to the contrary, stop all further proceedings and make an order directing the
tenant to put the landlord in possession of the building,(5)The amount
deposited under sub-section (1) may, subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed, be withdrawn by the landlord on application made by him in that
behalf to the Controller or the appellate authority, as the case may be.

### 12. Recovery of possession by landlord for repairs or for re-construction
of building in respect of which the Government shall be deemed to be the
tenant.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, on an application made by a
landlord of a building in respect of which the Government shall be deemed to
be the tenant, the authorised officer shall, if he is satisfied-(a)that the
building in bona fide required by the landlord for carrying out repairs which
cannot be carried out without the building being vacated, or(b)that the
building is bona fide required by the landlord for the immediate purpose of
demolishing it and such demolition is to be made for the purpose of erecting a
new building on the site of the building sought to be demolished, pass
an.order directing the allottee to deliver possession of the building to the
landlord before a specified date.(2)An order passed by the authorized officer
under sub-section (1) directing the allottee to deliver possession of the
building to the landlord shall be subject to such conditions and restrictions
as may be prescribed.(3)No order directing the allottee to deliver possession
of the building shall be passed by the authorized officer under sub-section
(1)-(a)on the ground specified in clause (a) of sub-section (1), unless the
landlord gives an undertaking that the building shall, on completion of the
repairs, be offered to the authorized officer before the expiry of three
months from the date of recovery of possession by the landlord or before the
expiry of such further period as the authorized officer may, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, allow, for reallotment to any person named by the
authorized officer; or(b)on the ground specified in clause (b) of sub-section
(1), unless the landlord gives an undertaking that the work of demolishing any
material portion of the building shall be substantially commenced by him not
later than one month, and shall be commenced by him not later than one month,
and shall be completed before the expiry of three months from the date he
recovers possession of the entire building or before the expiry of such
further period as the authorized officer may, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, allow.[(3-A) (a) Any person aggrieved by an order passed by the
authorized officer under sub-section (1) may, within fifteen days from the
date of the receipt of such order, prefer an appeal to the Government and the
Government shall pass such order, including extension of time for vacating the
building, as they deem fit.(b)On such appeal being preferred, the Government
may order stay of further proceedings pending decision on the
appeal.](4)Notwithstanding an order passed by the authorized officer under
clause (a) of sub-section (1) directing the allottee to deliver possession of
the building, the Government shall be deemed to continue to be the "tenant,
but the landlord shall not be entitled to any rent for the period commencing
on the date of delivery of possession of the building by the allottee to the
landlord and ending with the date on which the building is offered to the
authorized officer by the landlord in pursuance of the undertaking under
clause (a) of sub-section (3).(5)No thing contained in this section shall
entitled the landlord who has recovered possession of the building for repairs
to convert a residential building into a non-residential building or a non-
residential building into a residential building unless such conversion is
permitted by the authorized officer at the time of passing an order under
clause (a) of sub-section (1).(6)If, after the allottee has delivered
possession, the landlord fails to commence the work or repairs within one
month from the date of such delivery or failure to complete the work before
the expiry of three months from the date of such delivery or before the expiry
of the further period allowed under clause (a) of sub-section (3) or having
completed the work fails to offer the building to the authorized officer, the
authorized officer may suo motu or on application, order the reallotment of
the building to any person named by him; and on such order being made, the
landlord and any other person who may be in occupation shall put the allottee
in possession of the building.

### 13. Authorised officer to give notice to landlord in certain cases.

(1)Where an order directing delivery of possession has been passed by the
authorized officer under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 12 and the
work of demolishing any material portion of the building has not been
substantially commenced by the landlord within the period of one month in
accordance with his undertaking under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section
12, the authorized officer may give the landlord notice of his intention to
reallot the building to any person named by him. If within fifteen days from
the date of receipt of such notice, the landlord does not otter the building
to the authorized officer, the authorized officer may re-allot the building to
any person named by him on the original terms and conditions and order the
landlord to put such person in possession of the building.(2)[ Where, in
pursuance of an order passed by the authorized officer under clause (b) of
sub-section (1) of section 12, any building is totally demolished and a new
building is erected in its place, all the provisions of this Act shall cease
to apply to such new building for a period of five years from the date on
which the construction of such new building is completed and notified to the
local authority concerned.] [Substituted by section 12 of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).]

### 14. Recovery of possession by landlord for repairs or for re-construction.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, but subject to the
provisions of sections 12 and 13, on an application made by a landlord, the
Controller shall, if he is satisfied-(a)that the building is bona fide
required by the landlord for carrying out repairs which cannot be carried out
without the building being vacated; or(b)that the building is bona fide
required by the landlord for the immediate purpose of demolishing it and such
demolition is to be made for the purpose of erecting a new building on the
site of the building sought to be demolished, pass an order directing the
tenant to deliver possession of the building to the landlord before a
specified date.(2)No order directing the tenant to deliver possession of the
building under this section shall be passed-(a)on the ground specified in
clause (a) of sub-section (1), unless the landlord gives an undertaking that
the building shall, on completion of the repairs, be offered to the tenant,
who delivered possession in pursuance of an order under sub-section (1) for
his re-occupation before the expiry of three months from the date of recovery
of possession by the landlord, or before the expiry of such further period as
the Controller may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, allow; or(b)on the
ground specified in clause (b) of sub-section (1), unless the landlord gives
an undertaking that the work of demolishing any material portion of the
building shall be substantially commenced by him not later than one month and
shall be completed before the expiry of three months from the date he recovers
possession of the entire building or before the expiry of such further period
as the Controller may, for reason to be recorded in writing, allow.(3)Nothing
contained in this section shall entitle the landlord who has recovered
possession of the building for repairs to convert a residential building into
a non-residential building or a non-residential building into a residential
building unless such conversion is permitted by the Controller at the time of
passing an order under sub-section (1).(4)Notwithstanding an order passed by
the Controller under clause (a) of sub-section (1) directing the tenant to
deliver possession of the building, such tenant shall be deemed to continue to
be the tenant, but the landlord shall not be entitled to any rent for the
period commencing on the date of delivery of possession of the building by the
tenant to the landlord and ending with the date on which the building is
offered to the tenant by the landlord in pursuance of the undertaking under
clause (a) of sub-section (2).(5)Nothing in this section shall entitle any
landlord of a building in respect of which the Government shall be deemed to
be the tenant to make any application under this section.

### 15. Tenant to re-occupy after repairs.

(1)Where the landlord recovers possession under clause (a) of sub-section (1)
of section 14, he shall, within two months before the date on which the work
of repairs is likely to be completed, give notice to the tenant of the date on
which the said work will be completed. Within fifteen days from the date of
receipt of such notice, the tenant shall intimate to the landlord his
acceptance of the building offered for his re-occupation and if the tenant
gives such intimation, the landlord shall, within thirty days from the date of
completion of the work of repairs, put the tenant in possession of the
building on the original terms and conditions. If the tenant fails to give
such intimation, his right to re-occupy the building shall terminate.(2)If
after the tenant has delivered possession, the landlord fails to commence the
work of repairs within one month from the date of such delivery, or fails to
complete the work before the expiry of three months from the date of such
delivery, or before the expiry of the further period allowed under clause (a)
of sub-section (2) of section 14 or having completed the work fails to put the
tenant in possession of the building in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (1), the Controller may, on the application of the tenant made within
thirty days from the date of such failure, order the landlord to put the
tenant in possession of the building on the original terms and conditions; and
on such order being made, the landlord and any person who may be in occupation
shall put the tenant in possession of the building.

### 16. Tenant to occupy if the building is not demolished.

(1)Where an order directing delivery of possession has been passed by the
Controller under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 14 and the work of
demolishing any material portion of the building has not been substantially
commenced by the landlord within the period of one month in accordance with
his undertaking under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 14, the tenant
may give the landlord notice of his intention to occupy the building the
possession of which he delivered. If within fifteen days from the date of
receipt of such notice, the landlord does not put him in possession of the
building on the original terms and conditions, the tenant may make an
application to the Controller within eight weeks of the date on which he put
the landlord in possession of the building. The Controller shall order the
landlord to put the tenant in possession of the building on the original terms
and conditions.(2)[ Where in pursuance of an order passed by the Controller
under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 14, any building is totally
demolished and a new building is erected in its place, all the provisions of
this Act shall cease to apply to such new building for a period of five years
from the date on which the construction of such new building is completed and
notified to the local authority concerned.] [Substituted by section 13 of the
Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu
Act 23 of 1973).]

### 17. Landlord not to interfere with amenities enjoyed by tenant.

\- [(1) No landlord shall without just or sufficient cause, cut off oi
withhold or cause to be cut off or withheld any of the amenities enjoyed by
the tenant or were in existence during the previous tenancy.] [Substituted by
section 14(1), by the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment
Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).](2)A tenant in occupation of a building
may, if the landlord has contravened the provisions of this section, make an
application to the Controller complaining of such contravention.(3)If the
tenant satisfies the Controller that the amenities were cut off or withheld or
caused to be cut off or withheld [x x x] [Words 'with a view to compel him to
vacate the building or to pay enhanced rent or to harass him' were omitted by
section 14(2)(i), by the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control)
Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).], the Controller may pass an
interim order, directing the landlord to restore the amenities immediately,
pending the inquiry referred to in sub-section (4).Explanation. - An interim
order may be passed under this sub-section without giving notice to the
landlord:[Provided that if the amenities are not restored within seven days
from the date of the interim order, the Controller may permit the tenant to
restore the amenities at his own cost and recover the cost of the expenses
incurred by the tenant in respect of restoration of such amenities from the
rent payable to the landlord in such monthly installments as may be specified
by the Controller.] [Proviso was added by section 14(2)(ii) of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).](4)If the Controller on inquiry finds that the tenant has been in
enjoyment of the amenities [or that the amenities were in existence during the
previous tenancy] [Words were inserted by section 14(3) of the Tamil Nadu
Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1973).] and that they were cut off or withheld by the landlord without just or
sufficient cause or if the landlord was in any way responsible for the
amenities being cut off or withheld, he shall make an order directing the
landlord to restore such amenities.(5)The Controller may, in his discretion,
direct that compensation not exceeding fifty rupees-(a)be paid to the landlord
by the tenant, if the application under sub-section (2) was made frivolously
or vexatiously;(b)be paid to the tenant by the landlord, if the 'landlord had
cut off or withheld the amenities or was in any way responsible for the
amenities being cut off or withheld frivolously or vexatiously.Explanation. -
In this section, the expression 'amenities' includes supply of water,
electricity, passages, staircases, light, lavatories, lifts and conservancy or
sanitary services.

### 18. [ Execution of orders. [Sections 18 and 18A were substituted for
original section 18 by section 15 of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).]

(1)Every order made under sections 10, 14, 15, 16 and 17 and every order
passed on appeal under section 23 or on revision under section 25 shall be
executed by the Controller, as if, such order is an order of a Civil Court and
for this purpose, the Controller shall have all the powers of a Civil
Court.(2)An order passed in execution under sub-section (1) shall not be
subject to any appeal or revision.

### 18A. Power of Controller to appointment of Commissioner.

\- The Controller shall have powers to appoint a Commissioner in any
proceeding pending before him and for this purpose, he shall have all the
powers of a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V
of 1908).] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.]

### 19. Decision which have become final not to be reopened.

\- [Any application under section 3-A or section 12, and any application under
sub-section (2) or sub section (3) or sub-section (3-A) of section 10 or under
section 14, 15 or 16] [Substituted for the words, brackets and figures 'The
Controller shall summarily reject any application under sub-section (2) or
under sub-section (3) of section 10 or under section 14, 15 or 16 which' by
section 16 of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act,
1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).], shall be summarily rejected by the
authorized officer or the Controller, as the case may be, if such application
raises between the same parties or between parties under whom they or any of
them claim, substantially the same issues as have been finally decided or as
purport to have been finally decided, in a former proceeding-(i)under this
Act, or(ii)under any other law, from time to time, in force before the date of
the commencement of this Act and relating to matters dealt with in this Act.

### 20. Orders of Controller to be pronounced in open Court.

\- Every order passed by a Controller under this Act shall be pronounced in
open Court on the day on which the case is finally heard, or on some future
day of which due notice shall be given.

### 21. Conversion into non-residential buildings.

\- No residential building shall be converted into a non-residential building
except with the permission in writing of the Controller.

### 22. Failure by landlord to make necessary repairs.

\- [(1) If a landlord fails to make necessary repairs to the building within a
reasonable time after notice is given-] [Section 22 was renumbered as sub-
section (1) thereof and sub-section (2) was added to that section by section
17 of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of l973).](a)by the authorized officer in the case of a
building in respect of which the Government shall be deemed to be the tenant
under sub-section (5) of section 3;(b)by the tenant in the case of any other
building;the authorized officer aforesaid may, in the case referred to in
clause (a), make such repairs or have them made by the allottee and deduct the
cost thereof from the rent payable for the building or ask the allottee to
make such a deduction from the rent payable; and the Controller may, in the
case referred to in clause (b), direct, on application by the tenant, that
such repairs may be made by the tenant and that the cost thereof may be
deducted by the tenant from the rent payable for the building:Provided that
the cost of repairs, and the deduction thereof which the authorized officer or
the Controller, as the case may be, may authorize shall not exceed in any one
year one-twelfth of the rent payable in respect of the building for that
year.(2)[ The landlord shall not, while making repairs, render the building
uninhabitable by digging up the floor or by removing any door or window or by
causing any other damage to any part of the building.] [Section 22 was
renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof and sub-section (2) was added to that
section by section 17 of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control)
Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).]

### 23. Appeal.

(1)(a)The Government may, by general or special order notified in the [Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette] [Substituted for the expression 'Fort St. George
Gazette' by section 18 of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control)
Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).], confer on such officers and
authorities as they think fit the powers of appellate authorities for the
purpose of this Act, in such areas and in such classes of cases as may be
specified in the order.(b)Any person aggrieved by an order passed by the
Controller may, within fifteen days from the date of such order, prefer an
appeal in writing to the appellate authority having jurisdiction.In computing
the fifteen days aforesaid, the time taken to obtain a certified copy of the
order appealed against shall be excluded.(2)On such appeal being preferred,
the appellate authority may order stay of further proceedings in the matter
pending decision on the appeal.(3)The appellate authority shall call for the
records of the case from the Controller and after giving the parties an
opportunity of being heard and, if necessary, after making such further
inquiry as he thinks fit either personally or through the Controller, shall
decide the appeal.Explanation. - The appellate authority may, while confirming
the order of eviction passed by the Controller, grant an extension of time to
the tenant for putting the landlord in possession of the building,(4)The
decision of the appellate authority and subject to such decision, an order of
the Controller shall be final and shall not be liable to be called in question
in any Court of Law, except as provided in section 25.

### 24. Costs.

\- Subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as may be prescribed,
the costs of, and incident to, all proceeding before the Controller or the
appellate authority referred to in section 23, shall be in the discretion of
the Controller or the appellate authority, who shall have full power to
determine by whom or out of what property and to what extent such costs are to
be paid, and to give all necessary directions for the purpose.Explanation. -
The appellate authority may set aside or vary any order passed by the
Controller in regard to the costs of, and incident to, the proceedings before
him.

### 25. [ Revision. [Substituted by section 19 of the Tamil Nadu Buildings
(Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).]

(1)The High Court may, on the application of any person aggrieved by an order
of the appellate authority, call for and examine the record of the appellate
authority, to satisfy itself as to the regularity of such proceeding or the
correctness, legality or propriety of any decision or order passed therein and
if, in any case, it appears to the High Court that any such decision or order
should be modified, annulled, reversed or remitted for reconsideration, it may
pass orders accordingly.(2)Every application to the High Court for the
exercise of its power under sub-section (1) shall be preferred within one
month from the date on which the order or proceeding to which the application
relates is communicated to the applicant:Provided that the High Court may, in
its discretion, allow further time not exceeding one month for the filing of
any such application, if it is satisfied that the application had sufficient
cause for not preferring the application within the time specified in this
sub-section.] [Inserted by section 10(4) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease
and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973).]

### 26. Order under the Act to be binding on sub-tenants.

\- Any order for the eviction of a tenant passed under this Act shall be
binding on all sub-tenants who were made parties in the application for
eviction, but any person who become a sub-tenant after the date of the
application for eviction shall be bound by the order of eviction and be
evicted as if he were a party to the proceedings provided that such order was
not obtained by fraud or collusion.

### 27. Proceedings by or against legal representatives.

(1)Any application made, appeal preferred, or proceeding taken, under this Act
by or against any person, may, in the event of his death, be continued by or
against his legal representatives.(2)Where any application, appeal or other
proceeding could have been made, preferred or taken under this Act by or
against any person, such application, appeal or other proceeding may, in the
event of his death, be made, preferred or taken by or against his legal
representatives.

### 28. Summons to witnesses.

\- Subject to such conditions and limitations as may be prescribed, the
Controller may, in his discretion, issue summons to witnesses requiring them
to attend in person to give evidence or to produce documents in their custody
in connection with any proceedings before him.

### 29. Exemptions.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Government may, subject
to such conditions as they deem fit, by notification, exempt any building or
class of buildings from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

### 30. [ Exemption in the case of certain buildings. [Substituted by Tamil
Nadu Act 2 of 1962.]

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to-(i)[ any building for a period
of five years from the date on which the construction is completed and
notified to the local authority concerned; or](ii)any residential building or
part thereof occupied by any one tenant if the monthly rent paid by him in
respect of that building or part exceeds [four hundred rupees;] [Substituted
for the words 'two hundred and fifty rupees' by Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1964.][x
x x] [This clause was omitted by section 2(ii) by Tamil Nadu Act 11 of
1964.](iii)[ any lease of a building under which the object of the tenant is
to run the business or industry with the fixtures, machinery, furniture or
other articles belonging to the landlord and situated in such building.]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.]Illustration (1). - Where a dal mill
as such is the subject matter of the lease and where the intention of the
tenant is to run the business with the machinery in the building in which such
dal mill is housed, the Act does not apply to such building.Illustration (2).
- Where the lease is of land and building together with fixtures, fittings,
cinematograph talkie equipments, machinery and other articles, the Act does
not apply to such building.Illustration (3). - Where a hotel building together
with the furniture, machinery and other articles necessary for the running of
hotel business is leased and the tenant is to run the hotel business in such
building, the Act does not apply to such building.Explanation. - For the
purposes of [clause (ii)] [Substituted far 'clauses (ii) and (iii)' by Tamil
Nadu Act 11 of 1964.], 'tenant' shall include-(a)a person to whom the tenant
has transferred his rights under the lease with the written consent of the
landlord; and(b)a sub-tenant in any case where the building or part thereof
has been sublet with the written consent of the landlord or where the lease
confers a right to sub-let.]

### 31. Executive authorities of local bodies to furnish certificated extracts
from property-tax assessment books.

\- The executive authority of a municipal council [***][The words 'or district
board' and 'district board' were omitted Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] or
panchayat or panchayat union council or the Revenue Officer of the [municipal]
[Substituted far the words 'Corporation of Madras' by section 21 (2) Tamil
Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted far the word
'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.] or municipal corporation of Madurai]
shall, on application made in this behalf and no payment of such fee as may,
from time to time, be fixed by the Government by notification, grant to the'
applicant a certified copy of the extract from the property-tax, assessment
book of the municipal council, [***] [The words 'or district board' and
'district board' omitted Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] panchayat or panchayat
union council or the [municipal corporation of [Chennai] [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Act 23 of 1973.] or municipal corporation of Madurai], as the case may
be, showing the rental value of the building or buildings in respect of which
application has been made, relating to the period specified in the
application. Such certified copy shall be received as evidence of the facts
stated therein, in proceedings under this Act.

### 32. Landlord and tenant to furnish particulars.

\- Every landlord and every tenant of a building shall be bound to furnish to
the Controller or any person authorized by him in that behalf [or the
authorized officer] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996.] such particulars in respect of the building as may be prescribed.

### 33. Penalties.

\- [(1) If any person contravenes any of the provisions of [sub-sections (1),
(1-A), (2), (4) and (5) of section 3, sub-section (4) of section 3-A,
subsections (1) (a) and (2) (a) of section 7] [Substituted for sub-section (1)
by section 23(1) by Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.], sub-section (1) of section 8,
sub-section (1) of section 17, section 21, sub-section (2) of section 22 or
section 32, or any order under sub-section (3) or sub-section (3-A) of section
10 or sub-section (3) of section 17, or any of the conditions in the
notification issued under section 29, he shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to two thousand rupees.][(1-A) Any landlord or the member of his
family, as the case may be, who, after obtaining possession of a building
under sub-section (3) or sub-section (3-A) of section 10, does not occupy it
within one month of his taking possession or having so occupied, vacates it
without reasonable cause within six months of such date, shall be punishable
with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees.] [Substituted for sub-
section (1) by section 23(1) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent
Control) Amendment Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1980).](2)(a)Any landlord,
who after the allottee has vacated the building before the date specified in
the order passed under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 12, fails to
commence the work of repairs without reasonable excuse and any landlord or
other person in occupation of the building who fails to comply with the order
passed by the authorized officer under sub-section (6) of section 12 shall, on
conviction, be punishable with fine which may extend to [two thousand rupees]
[Substituted for the words 'one thousand rupees' by Tamil Nadu Act 23 or
1973.].(b)Any landlord, who recovers possession on the ground specified in
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 12 and fails to carry out the
undertaking referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (3) of the said section
without any reasonable excuse or fails to comply with the conditions and
restrictions prescribed under sub-section (2) of the said section or fails to
comply with the order of the authorized officer under sub-section (1) of
section 13 shall, on conviction, be punishable with fine which may extend to
[two thousand rupees] [Substituted for 'one thousand rupees' by section 23(2)
of the Tamil Nadu Act 23 or 1973.].(3)(a)Any landlord, who after the tenant
has vacated the building before the date specified in the order passed under
clause (a) of sub-section(1) of section 14, fails to commence the work of
repairs without reasonable excuse and any landlord or other person in
occupation of the building who fails to comply with the order passed by the
Controller under sub-section(2) of section 15 shall, on conviction, be
punishable with fine which may extend to [two thousand rupees] [Substituted
for the words 'one thousand rupees' Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.].(b)Any
landlord who recovers possession on the ground specified in clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 14 and fails to carry out the undertaking referred to
in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of the said section without any reasonable
excuse or fails to comply with the order of the Controller under sub-section
(1) of section 16 shall, on conviction, be punishable with fine which may
extend to [two thousand rupees] [Substituted for 'one thousand rupees' by
Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973.].

### 34. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the purposes
of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by
this Act to be prescribed;(b)the procedure to be followed by Controllers and
appellate authorities in the performance of their functions under this
Act;(c)the manner in which notices and orders under this Act shall be given or
served;(d)setting aside ex pane orders and orders of dismissal for default
passed under this Act;(e)applications for making legal representatives of
deceased persons, parties to proceedings under this Act and the time within
which such applications shall be preferred;(f)the procedure to be followed in
taking possession of a building and in disposing of the articles found therein
at the time of taking possession; and(g)the fee leviable in respect of
applications on appeals under this Act.(3)In making a rule under this section,
the Government may provide that a person who contravenes any of the provisions
thereof shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.(4)[ (a) All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.](5)[ Every rule made under this Act, shall as
soon as possible after it is made, be placed on the table of [the Legislative
Assembly] [Substituted for original sub-section (4) by section 24 of the Tamil
Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23
or 1973), with effect from 30th June 1973.], and if, before the expiry of the
session in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative
Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words 'both the Houses agree' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any
such rule, or [the legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words
'both the Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.]
that the rule should not be made, the rule shall, thereafter, have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that rule.] [Substituted for
original sub-section (4) by section 24 of the Tamil Nadu Act 23 or 1973,
w.e.f. 30.6.1973.]Note. - Before its substitution, sub-rule (4) read as
follows:-"(4) All rules made and all notifications issued under this Act
shall, as soon as possible after they are made or issued, be placed on the
table of both Houses of Legislature and shall be subject to such modifications
by way of amendment or repeal as the Legislature may make either in the same
session or in the next session."

### 35. Repeals and savings.

(1)The Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1949 (Madras Act XXV of
1949) (hereinafter in this section referred to as the said Act) is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding the repeal of the said Act by sub-section
(1)-(a)all rules made, or deemed to have been made, notifications issued or
deemed to have been issued, orders passed or deemed to have been passed,
decisions made or deemed to have been made, proceedings or action taken or
deemed to have been taken and things done or deemed to have been done under
any provision of the said Act, shall be deemed to have been made, issued,
passed, taken or done by the appropriate authority under the corresponding
provision of this Act and shall have effect accordingly;(b)any liability or
penalty incurred or deemed to have been incurred, any punishment awarded or
deemed to have been awarded, any application made or deemed to have been made
and any prosecution commenced or deemed to have been commenced under any
provision of the said Act shall be deemed to have been incurred, awarded, made
or commenced under the corresponding provision of this Act.(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (2) of this section, or in section 5, the
Controller shall, on application by the tenant or the landlord of a building
for which fair rent has been fixed under the said Act, fix the fair rent for
such building in accordance with the provisions of section 4 of this Act.

### 36.

[Section 36 was omitted by section 25 of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and
Rent Control) Amendment Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973), with effect
from 30th June 197 3.]

### 37. Indemnity.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall He in any Court
against any officer or servant of the Government or any person acting under
his direction .or aiding or assisting him-(a)for, or on account of, or in
respect of any sentence passed or deemed to have been passed, any decision
given or deemed to have been given, or any act ordered or deemed to have been
ordered or done or deemed to have been done by him, in exercise of any
jurisdiction or power purporting to have been conferred on him by or under
this Act; or(b)for carrying out any sentence passed or decision given by any
Court or other authority in exercise of any such jurisdiction or power as
aforesaid.(2)No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Government for, or on account of, or in respect of any act, matter or thing
whatsoever, purporting to have been done in pursuance of, or under, this Act.

### 38. Repeal of corresponding law in the transferred territory.

(1)Any law corresponding to this Act in force in the transferred territory,
immediately before the date of the commencement of this Act (hereinafter in
this section referred to as the corresponding law), shall stand repealed on
the date of such commencement.(2)The repeal by sub-section (1) of the
corresponding law shall not affect-(a)the previous operation of the
corresponding law or anything done or duly suffered thereunder; or(b)any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed
against the corresponding law; or(c)any investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy in respect of any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment as
aforesaid;and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be
instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed.(3)Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), anything done or any action taken, including
any appointment or delegation made, notification, order, instruction or
direction issued, rule, regulation or form framed or registration effected,
under the corresponding law shall be deemed to have been done or taken under
this Act and shall continue in force accordingly, unless and until superseded
by anything done or any action taken under this Act.(4)For the purpose of
facilitating the application of this Act in the transferred territory, any
Court or other authority may construe this Act with such alterations not
affecting the substance as may be necessary or proper to adapt it to the
matter before the Court or other authority.(5)Any reference in any law which
continues to be in force in the transferred territory after the date of the
commencement of this Act to the corresponding law shall, in relation to that
territory, be construed as a reference to this Act.Explanation. - For the
purpose of this section, the expression, "transferred territory" shall mean
the Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district.

### 39. [ [Section 39 omitted by Tamil Nudu Act 23 of1973, w.e.f. 30.6.1973.]

* * *][Schedule I] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973, w.e.f. 30.6.1973.](See section 4)Amenities(1)Air-conditioner.(2)Lift.(3)Water-cooler.(4)Electrical heater.(5)Frigidaire.(6)Mosaic flooring.(7)Side dadoos.(8)Compound walls.(9)Garden.(10)Over-head tank for water-supply.(11)Electric pump and motor for water-supply.(12)Playground.(13)Badminton and Tennis Courts.(14)Sun-breakers.(15)Amenity referred to in the first proviso to sub-section (4) of section 4.(16)Usufructs, if any, enjoyed by the tenant.(17)Features of special architectural interest.[Schedule II] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1973, w.e.f. 30.6.1973.](See section 4)Rates of Depreciation

| Type of buildings | Rate of depreciation per annum  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) |   
1. |  Buildings built in lime mortar and in which teakhas been used throughout. | 1 per cent.  
2. |  Buildings built partly of brick in lime mortarand partly of brick in mud and in which teak has been used. | 11/2 per cent.  
3. |  Buildings built in brick-in-mud and in whichcountry wood has been used. | 2 per cent  
4. |  Buildings which are inferior to those of class 3with brick-in-mud unplastered walls and mud floors and in whichcheap country wood has been used. | 4 per cent.  
  
Explanation. - (1) The depreciation shall be calculated for each year on the
net value arrived at after deducting the amount of depreciation for the
previous year.(2)The amount of depreciation shall, in no case, be less than
ten per cent of the cost of construction of the building.(3)The actual
depreciation of a building aged 'n' years is calculated by using the formula -

P =| A| (110 + r)n100  
---  
  
whereA = total cost of construction of the building,r = rate of depreciation
per annum,n = age of the building (i.e., the number of years),p = the final
depreciated value of the building.The amount of depreciation will be equal to
('A' - 'P') subject to a minimum often per cent of 'A'.

