## Union of India - Act

## The Transplantation Of Human Organs and Tissues Act, 1994

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Transplantation Of Human Organs and Tissues Act, 1994

## Act 42 of 1994

  * Published in Gazette 42 on 8 July 1994 
  * Assented to on 8 July 1994 
  * Commenced on 8 July 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document as it was from 4 February 1995 to None.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Transplantation of Human Organs Act, 1994(42 of 1994)

### 188.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-At present, there is no comprehensive
legislation to regulate the removal of organs from living as well as deceased
persons and transplantation of such organs. In the Union territory of Delhi,
there are two enactments in force, namely, the Eyes (Authority for Use for
Therapeutic Purposes) Act, 1982 and the Ear Drums and Ear Bones (Authority for
Use for Therapeutic Purposes) Act, 1982 which regulate the removal and
transplantation of cornea, ear drum and ear bones. In Maharashtra, the
Maharashtra Kidney Transplantation Act, 1982 and the Bombay Corneal Grafting
Act, 1957 regulate the transplantation of kidneys and corneas respectively.
Thus, there is a need for a comprehensive legislation for regulating the
removal of organs from cadavers and living persons and prohibiting commercial
dealings in human organs.2\. There has been a persistent demand for such a
legislation in Parliament, and from various national bodies, medical, legal
and social experts, particularly when reports about tl~e commercial dealing in
human organs, especially kidneys, have increased. There has been persistent
demand for prohibiting this unethical practice. On the other hand, in the
absence of any legal sanction the removal of organs from persons suffering
brain-stem death has not been possible. It has impeded transplantation of
organs like liver and heart for which the necessary technology is available in
the country. In order to reach a broad consensus of opinion in this regard, a
series of seminars were held in the four metropolitan cities of the country. A
report was also prepared by a Committee of medical and legal experts headed by
Dr. L.M. Singhvi.3\. Against this background, it is considered necessary to
enact a comprehensive law for regulating the removal and transplantation of
human organs and for preventing commercial dealings in organs by providing
punishment for such dealings.4\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.An Act to provide for the regulation of removal, storage and
transplantation of [human organs and tissues for therapeutic purposes and for
the prevention of commercial dealings in human organs and tissues]
[Substituted for the words "human organs for therapeutic purposes and for the
prevention of commercial dealings in human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section
2.] and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto .Whereas it is
expedient to provide for the regulation of removal, storage and
transplantation of human organs for therapeutic purposes and for the
prevention of commercial dealings in human organs;And whereas Parliament has
no power to make laws for the States with respect to any of the matters
aforesaid except as provided in articles 249 and 250 of the Constitution;And
whereas in pursuance of clause (1) of article 252 of the Constitution,
resolutions have been passed by all the Houses of the Legislatures of the
States of Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra to the effect that the matters
aforesaid should be regulated in those States by Parliament by law;Be it
enacted by Parliament in the Forty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:

Act enforced from 4.2.1995 in Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and all Union
territories, see Gazette of India, Dated 4.2.1995, Pt.II, Section 3(ii), Ext.,
S.O.80(E)/1995; from 4.4.1996 in Meghalaya, see Meghalaya Gazette, dated
4.9.1996; from 10.4.1996 in Rajasthan, se Rajasthan Gazette, dated 10.4.1996
and from 8.1.1997 in Punjab, see Punjab Government Gazette, dated
8.1.1997.Transplantation Of Human Organs (Amendment) Act, No. 16 Of 2011
applies, in the first instance, to the whole of the States of Goa, Himachal
Pradesh and West Bengal and to all the Union territories and it shall also
apply to such other State which adopts this Act by resolution passed in that
behalf under clause (1) of article 252 of the Constitution.Transplantation Of
Human Organs (Amendment) Act, No. 16 Of 2011 shall come into force in the
States of Goa, Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal and in all the Union
territories on such date as the Central Government may, by notification,
appoint and in any other State which adopts this Act under clause (1) of
article 252 of the Constitution on the date of such adoption; and any
reference in this Act to the commencement of this Act shall, in relation to
any State or Union territory, means the date on which this Act comes into
force in such State or Union territory.  
---  
  
## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, application and commencement

(1)This Act may be called The Transplantation of [Human Organs and Tissues]
[Substituted for the words "Human Organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 3.] Act ,
1994.(2)It applies, in the first instance, to the whole of the States of Goa,
Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra and to all the Union territories and it shall
also apply to such other State which adopts this Act by resolution passed in
that behalf under clause (1) of article 252 of the Constitution.(3)It shall
come into force in the States of Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra and in
all the Union territories on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification, appoint and in any other State which adopts this Act under
clause (1) of article 252 of the Constitution, on the date of such adoption;
and any reference in this Act to the commencement of this Act shall, in
relation to any State or Union territory, means the date on which this Act
comes into force in such State or Union territory.

### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)advertisement includes
any form of advertising whether to the public generally or to any section of
the public or individually to selected persons;(b)Appropriate Authority means
the Appropriate Authority appointed under section 13;(c)Authorisation
Committee means the committee constituted under clause (a) or clause (b) of
sub-section (4) of section 9;(d)brain-stem death means the stage at which all
functions of the brain-stem have permanently and irreversibly ceased and is so
certified under sub-section (6) of section 3;(e)deceased person means a person
in whom permanent disappearance of all evidence of life occurs, by reason of
brain-stem death or in a cardio-pulmonary sense, at any time after live birth
has taken place;(f)donor means any person, not less than eighteen years of
age, who voluntarily authorises the removal of any of his [human organs or
tissues or both] [Substituted for the words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011,
Section 4.] for therapeutic purposes under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
of section 3;(g)hospital includes a nursing home, clinic, medical centre,
medical or teaching institution for therapeutic purposes and other like
institution;(h)human organ means any part of a human body consisting of a
structured arrangement of tissues which, if wholly removed, cannot be
replicated by the body;(ha)[ "Human Organ Retrieval Centre" means a hospital,-
[Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 5.](i)which has adequate facilities for
treating seriously ill patients who can be potential donors of organs in the
event of death; and(ii)which is registered under sub-section (1) of section 14
for retrieval of human organs;](hb)[ "minor" means a person who has not
completed the age of eighteen years;] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section
5.](i)[ "near relative" means spouse, son, daughter, father, mother, brother,
sister, grandfather, grandmother, grandson or granddaughter;] [Substituted by
Act 16 of 2011, Section 5.](j)notification means a notification published in
the Official Gazette;(k)payment means payment in money or moneys worth but
does not include any payment for defraying or reimbursing(i)the cost of
removing, transporting or preserving the [human organ or tissue or both]
[Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] to be
supplied; or(ii)any expenses or loss of earnings incurred by a person so far
as reasonably and directly attributable to his supplying any [human organ or
tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011,
Section 4.] from his body;(l)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under
this Act;(m)recipient means a person into whom any [human organ or tissue or
both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.]
is, or is proposed to be, transplanted;(n)registered medical practitioner
means a medical practitioner who possesses any recognised medical
qualification as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of the Indian Medical
Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), and who is enrolled on a State Medical
Register as defined in clause (k) of that section;(o)therapeutic purposes
means systematic treatment of any disease or the measures to improve health
according to any particular method or modality;(oa)[ "tissue" means a group of
cells, except blood, performing a particular function in the human body;]
[Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 5.](ob)[ "Tissue Bank" means a facility
registered under section 14A for carrying out any activity relating to the
recovery, screening, testing, processing, storage and distribution of tissues,
but does not include a Blood Bank;] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section
5.](p)transplantation means the grafting of any [human organ or tissue or
both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.]
from any living person or deceased person to some other living person for
therapeutic purposes.(q)[ "transplant co-ordinator" means a person appointed
by the hospital for coordinating all matters relating to removal or
transplantation of human organs or tissues or both and for assisting the
authority for removal of human organs in accordance with the provisions of
section 3.] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 5.]

## Chapter II  
Authority For The Removal Of [Human Organs Or Tissues Or Both] [Substituted
For The Words &Quot;human Organs&Quot; By Act 16 Of 2011, Section 4.]

### 3. Authority for removal of [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted
for the words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.]

(1)Any donor may, in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed, authorise the removal, before his death, of any [human organ or
tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011,
Section 4.] of his body for therapeutic purposes.(1A)[ For the purpose of
removal, storage or transplantation of such human organs or tissues or both,
as may be prescribed, it shall be the duty of the registered medical
practitioner working in a hospital, in consultation with transplant co-
ordinator, if such transplant co-ordinator is available,-(i)to ascertain from
the person admitted to the Intensive Care Unit or from his near relative that
such person had authorised at any time before his death the removal of any
human organ or tissue or both of his body under sub-section (2), then the
hospital shall proceed to obtain the documentation for such authorisation in
such manner as may be prescribed;(ii)where no such authority as referred to in
sub-section (2) was made by such person, to make aware in such manner as may
be prescribed to that person or near relative for option to authorise or
decline for donation of human organs or tissues or both;(iii)to require the
hospital to inform in writing to the Human Organ Retrieval Centre for removal,
storage or transplantation of human organs or tissues or both, of the donor
identified in clauses (i) and (ii) in such manner as may be prescribed.(1B)The
duties mentioned under clauses (i) to (iii) of sub-section (1A) from such
date, as may be prescribed, shall also apply in the case of registered medical
practitioner working in an Intensive Care Unit in a hospital which is not
registered under this Act for the purpose of removal, storage or
transplantation of human organs or tissues or both.] [Inserted by Act 18 of
2011, Section 6.](2)If any donor had, in writing and in the presence of two or
more witnesses (at least one of whom is a near relative of such person),
unequivocally authorised at any time before his death, the removal of any
[human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by
Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] of his body, after his death, for therapeutic
purposes, the person lawfully in possession of the dead body of the donor
shall, unless he has any reason to believe that the donor had subsequently
revoked the authority aforesaid, grant to a registered medical practitioner
all reasonable facilities for the removal for therapeutic purposes, of that
[human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by
Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] from the dead body of the donor.(3)Where no such
authority as is referred to in sub-section (2), was made by any person before
his death but no objection was also expressed by such person to any of his
[human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted for the words "human organs" by
Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] being used after his death for therapeutic
purposes, the person lawfully in possession of the dead body of such person
may, unless he has reason to believe that any near relative of the deceased
person has objection to any of the deceased persons [human organs or tissues
or both] [Substituted for the words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section
4.] being used for therapeutic purposes, authorise the removal of any [human
organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of
2011, Section 4.] of the deceased person for its use for therapeutic
purposes.(4)The authority given under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) or,
as the case may be, sub-section (3) shall be sufficient warrant for the
removal, for therapeutic purposes, of the human organ; but no such removal
shall be made by any person other than the registered medical
practitioner.[Provided that a technician possessing such qualifications and
experience, as may be prescribed, may enucleate a cornea.] [Inserted by Act 18
of 2011, Section 6.](5)Where any [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted
for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] is to be removed
from the body of a deceased person, the registered medical practitioner shall
satisfy himself, before such removal, by a personal examination of the body
from which any [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words
"human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] is to be removed, that life is
extinct in such body or, where it appears to be a case of brain-stem death,
that such death has been certified under sub-section (6).(6)Where any [human
organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of
2011, Section 4.] is to be removed from the body of a person in the event of
his brain-stem death, no such removal shall be undertaken unless such death is
certified, in such form and in such manner and on satisfaction of such
conditions and requirements as may be prescribed, by a Board of medical
experts consisting of the following, namely:(i)the registered medical
practitioner in charge of the hospital in which brain-stem death has
occurred;(ii)an independent registered medical practitioner, being a
specialist to be nominated by the registered medical practitioner specified in
clause (i), from the panel of names approved by the Appropriate
Authority;(iii)a neurologist or a neurosurgeon to be nominated by the
registered medical practitioner specified in clause (i), from the panel of
names approved by the Appropriate Authority;[Provided that where a neurologist
or a neurosurgeon is not available, the registered medical practitioner may
nominate an independent registered medical practitioner, being a surgeon or a
physician and an anaesthetist or intensivist subject to the condition that
they are not members of the transplantation team for the concerned recipient
and to such conditions as may be prescribed;] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011,
Section 6.](iv)the registered medical practitioner treating the person whose
brain-stem death has occurred.(7)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (3), where brain-stem death of any person, less than eighteen years of
age, occurs and is certified under sub-section (6), any of the parents of the
deceased person may give authority, in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed, for the removal of any [human organ or tissue or both]
[Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] from
the body of the deceased person.

### 4. Removal of [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted for the words
"human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] not to be authorised in certain
cases

(1)No facilities shall be granted under sub-section (2) of section 3 and no
authority shall be given under sub-section (3) of that section for the removal
of any [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human
organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] from the body of a deceased person if
the person, required to grant such facilities or empowered to give such
authority, has reason to believe that an inquest may be required to be held in
relation to such body in pursuance of the provisions of any law for the time
being in force.(2)No authority for the removal of any [human organ or tissue
or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section
4.] from the body of a deceased person shall be given by a person to whom such
body has been entrusted solely for the purpose of interment, cremation or
other disposal.

### 5. Authority for removal of [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted
for the words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] in case of
unclaimed bodies in hospital or prison

(1)In the case of a dead body lying in a hospital or prison and not claimed by
any of the near relatives of the deceased person within forty-eight hours from
the time of the death of the concerned person, the authority for the removal
of any [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human
organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] from the dead body which so remains
unclaimed may be given, in the prescribed form, by the person in charge, for
the time being, of the management or control of the hospital or prison, or by
an employee of such hospital or prison authorised in this behalf by the person
in charge of the management or control thereof.(2)No authority shall be given
under sub-section (1) if the person empowered to give such authority has
reason to believe that any near relative of the deceased person is likely to
claim the dead body even though such near relative has not come forward to
claim the body of the deceased person within the time specified in sub-section
(1).

### 6. Authority for removal of [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted
for the words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] from bodies sent
for post-mortem examination for medico-legal or pathological purposes

.Where the body of a person has been sent for post-mortem examination(a)for
medico-legal purposes by reason of the death of such person having been caused
by accident or any other unnatural cause; or(b)for pathological purposes,the
person competent under this Act to give authority for the removal of any
[human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by
Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] from such dead body may, if he has reason to
believe that such [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words
"human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] will not be required for the
purpose for which such body has been sent for post-mortem examination,
authorise the removal, for therapeutic purposes, of that [human organ or
tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011,
Section 4.] of the deceased person provided that he is satisfied that the
deceased person, had not expressed, before his death, any objection to any of
his [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted for the words "human
organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] being used, for therapeutic purposes
after his death or, where he had granted an authority for the use of any of
his [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted for the words "human
organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] for therapeutic purposes after his
death, such authority had not been revoked by him before his death.

### 7. Preservation of [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted for the
words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.]

.After the removal of any [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the
words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] from the body of any person
the registered medical practitioner shall take such steps for the preservation
of the [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human
organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] so removed as may be prescribed.

### 8. Savings

(1)Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Act shall be construed as
rendering unlawful any dealing with the body or with any part of the body of a
deceased person if such dealing would have been lawful if this Act had not
been passed.(2)Neither the grant of any facility or authority for the removal
of any [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human
organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] from the body of a deceased person in
accordance with the provisions of this Act nor the removal of any [human organ
or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011,
Section 4.] from the body of a deceased person in pursuance of such authority
shall be deemed to be an offence punishable under section 297 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 9. Restrictions on removal and transplantation of human organs

(1)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (3), no human organ removed from
the body of a donor before his death shall be transplanted into a recipient
unless the donor is a near relative of the recipient.(1A)[ Where the donor or
the recepient being near relative is a foreign national, prior approval of the
Authorisation Committee shall be required before removing or transplanting
human organ or tissue or both:Provided that the Authorisation Committee shall
not approve such removal or transplantation if the recipient is a foreign
national and the donor is an Indian national unless they are near
relatives.(1B)No human organs or tissues or both shall be removed from the
body of a minor before his death for the purpose of transplanation except in
the manner as may be prescribed.(1C)No human organs or tissues or both shall
be removed from the body of a mentally challenged person before his death for
the purpose of transplantation.Explanation.-For the purpose of this sub-
section,-(i)the expression "mentally challenged person" includes a person with
mental illness or mental retardation, as the case may be;(ii)the expression
"mental illness" includes dementia, schizophrenia and such other mental
condition that makes a person intellectually disabled;(iii)the expression
"mental retardation" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause
(r) of section 2 of the Persons With Disabilities (Equal Opportunities,
Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 (1 of 1996).](2)Where
any donor authorises the removal of any of his [human organs or tissues or
both] [Substituted for the words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.]
after his death under sub-section (2) of section 3 or any person competent or
empowered to give authority for the removal of any [human organ or tissue or
both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.]
from the body of any deceased person authorises such removal, the [human organ
or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011,
Section 4.] may be removed and transplanted into the body of any recipient who
may be in need of such human organ.(3)If any donor authorises the removal of
any of his [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted for the words "human
organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] before his death under sub-section (1)
of section 3 for transplantation into the body of such recipient not being a
near relative as is specified by the donor by reason of affection or
attachment towards the recipient or for any other special reasons, such [human
organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of
2011, Section 4.] shall not be removed and transplanted without the prior
approval of the Authorisation Committee.(3A)[ Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (3), where-(a)any donor has agreed to make a donation
of his human organ or tissue or both before his death to a recipient, who is
his near relative, but such donor is not compatible biologically as a donor
for the recipient; and(b)the second donor has agreed to make a donation of his
human organ or tissue or both before his death to such recipient, who is his
near relative, but such donor is not compatible biologically as a donor for
such recipient; then(c)the first donor who is compatible biologically as a
donor for the second recipient and the second donor is compatible biologically
as a donor of a human organ or tissue or both for the first recipient and both
donors and both recipients in the aforesaid group of donor and recipient have
entered into a single agreement to donate and receive such human organ or
tissue or both according to such biological compatibility in the group,the
removal and transplantation of the human organ or tissue or both, as per the
agreement referred to above, shall not be done without prior approval of the
Authorisation Committee.](4)[ (a) The composition of the Authorisation
Committees shall be such as may be prescribed by the Central Government from
time to time.(b)The State Government and the Union territories shall
constitute, by notification, one or more Authorisation Committees consisting
of such members as may be nominated by the State Governments and the Union
territories on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the
notification for the purposes of this section.](5)On an application jointly
made in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed, by the donor and
the recipient, the Authorisation Committee shall, after holding an inquiry and
after satisfying itself that the applicants have complied with all the
requirements of this Act and the rules made thereunder, grant to the
applicants approval for the removal and transplantation of the human
organ.(6)If, after the inquiry and after giving an opportunity to the
applicants of being heard, the Authorisation Committee is satisfied that the
applicants have not complied with the requirements of this Act and the rules
made thereunder, it shall, for reasons to be recorded in writing, reject the
application for approval.

## Chapter III  
Regulation Of Hospitals

### 10. Regulation of hospitals conducting the removal, storage or
transplantation of [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted for the
words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.]

(1)On and from the commencement of this Act,(a)no hospital, unless registered
under this Act, shall conduct, or associate with, or help in, the removal,
storage or transplantation of any human organ;(b)no medical practitioner or
any other person shall conduct, or cause to be conducted, or aid in conducting
by himself or through any other person, any activity relating to the removal,
storage or transplantation of any [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted
for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] at a place other
than a place registered under this Act;(c)no place including a hospital
registered under sub-section (1) of section 15 shall be used or cause to be
used by any person for the removal, storage or transplantation of any [human
organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of
2011, Section 4.] except for therapeutic purposes, and(d)[ no Tissue Bank,
unless registered under this Act, shall carry out any activity relating to the
recovery, screening, testing, processing, storage and distribution of
tissues.] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 8.](2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), the eyes or the ears may be removed at any place
from the dead body of any donor, for therapeutic purposes, by a registered
medical practitioner.Explanation. For the purposes of this sub-section, ears
includes ear drums and ear bones.

### 11. Prohibition of removal or transplantation of [human organs or tissues
or both] [Substituted for the words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section
4.] for any purpose other than therapeutic purposes

.No donor and no person empowered to give authority for the removal of any
[human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by
Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] shall authorise the removal of any [human organ or
tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011,
Section 4.] for any purpose other than therapeutic purposes.

### 12. Explaining effects, etc., to donor and recipient

.No registered medical practitioner shall undertake the removal or
transplantation of any [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the
words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] unless he had explained, in
such manner as may be prescribed, all possible effects, complications and
hazards connected with the removal and transplantation to the donor and the
recipient respectively.

## Chapter IV  
Appropriate Authority

### 13. Appropriate Authority.

(1)The Central Government shall appoint, by notification, one or more officers
as Appropriate Authorities for each of the Union territories for the purposes
of this Act.(2)The State Government shall appoint, by notification, one or
more officers as Appropriate Authorities for the purposes of this Act.(3)The
Appropriate Authority shall perform the following functions, namely:(i)to
grant registration under sub-section (1) of section 15 or renew registration
under sub-section (3) of that section;(ii)to suspend or cancel registration
under sub-section (2) of section 16;(iii)[ to enforce such standards, as may
be prescribed,- [Substituted by Act 16 of 2011, Section 9.](A)for hospitals
engaged in the removal, storage or transplantation of any human organ;(B)for
Tissue Banks engaged in recovery, screening, testing, processing, storage and
distribution of tissues;](iv)to investigate any complaint of breach of any of
the provisions of this Act or any of the rules made thereunder and take
appropriate action;(iva)[ to inspect Tissue Banks periodically;] [Inserted by
Act 18 of 2011, Section 9.](v)to inspect hospitals periodically for
examination of the quality of transplantation and the follow-up medical care
to persons who have undergone transplantation and persons from whom organs are
removed; and(vi)to undertake such other measures as may be prescribed.[13A.
Advisory Committees to advise Appropriate Authority. - (1) The Central
Government and the State Governments, as the case may be, by notification,
shall constitute an Advisory Committee for a period of two years to aid and
advise the Appropriate Authority to discharge its functions.(2)The Advisory
Committee shall consist of-(a)one administrative expert not below the rank of
Secretary to the State Government, to be nominated as Chairperson of the
Advisory Committee;(b)two medical experts having such qualifications as may be
prescribed;(c)one officer not below the rank of a Joint Director to represent
the Ministry or Department of Health and Family Welfare, to be designated as
Member-Secretary;(d)two eminent social workers of high social standing and
integrity, one of whom shall be from amongst representatives of women"s
organisation;(e)one legal expert who has held the position of an Additional
District Judge or equivalent;(f)one person to represent non-governmental
organisations or associations which are working in the field of organ or
tissue donations or human rights;(g)one specialist in the field of human organ
transplantation, provided he is not a member of the transplantation
team.(3)The terms and conditions for appointment to the Advisory Committee
shall be such as may be prescribed by the Central Government.] [Inserted by
Act 18 of 2011, Section 10.][13B. Powers of Appropriate Authority. - The
Appropriate Authority shall for the purposes of this Act have all the powers
of a civil court trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908) and, in particular, in respect of the following matters,
namely:-(a)summoning of any person who is in possession of any information
relating to violation of the provisions of this Act or the rules made
thereunder;(b)discovery and production of any document or material
object;(c)issuing search warrant for any place suspected to be indulging in
unauthorised removal, procurement or transplantation of human organs or
tissues or both; and (d) any other matter which may be prescribed.][13C.
National Human Organs and Tissues Removal and Storage Network. - The Central
Government may, by notification, establish a National Human Organs and Tissues
Removal and Storage Network at one or more places and Regional Network in such
manner and to perform such functions, as may be prescribed.] [Inserted by Act
18 of 2011, Section 10.][13D. National registry. - The Central Government
shall maintain a national registry of the donors and recipients of human
organs and tissues and such registry shall have such information as may be
prescribed to an ongoing evaluation of the scientific and clinical status of
human organs and tissues.] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 10.]

## Chapter V  
Registration Of Hospitals

### 14. Registration of hospitals engaged in removal, storage or
transplantation of [human organs or tissues or both] [Substituted for the
words "human organs" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.]

(1)[No hospital (including Human Organ Retrieval Centre)] [Substituted for the
words "No hospital" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 11.] shall commence any
activity relating to the removal, storage or transplantation of any [human
organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of
2011, Section 4.] for therapeutic purposes after the commencement of this Act
unless such hospital is duly registered under this Act:Provided that every
hospital engaged, either partly or exclusively, in any activity relating to
the removal, storage or transplantation of any [human organ or tissue or both]
[Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] for
therapeutic purposes immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall
apply for registration within sixty days from the date of such
commencement:Provided further that every hospital engaged in any activity
relating to the removal, storage or transplantation of any [human organ or
tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011,
Section 4.] shall cease to engage in any such activity on the expiry of three
months from the date of commencement of this Act unless such hospital has
applied for registration and is so registered or till such application is
disposed of, whichever is earlier.(2)Every application for registration under
sub-section (1) shall be made to the Appropriate Authority in such form and in
such manner and shall be accompanied by such fees as may be prescribed.(3)No
hospital shall be registered under this Act unless the Appropriate Authority
is satisfied that such hospital is in a position to provide such specialised
services and facilities, possess such skilled manpower and equipments and
maintain such standards as may be prescribed.(4)[ No hospital shall be
registered under this Act, unless the Appropriate Authority is satisfied that
such hospital has appointed a transplant coordinator having such
qualifications and experience as may be prescribed.] [Inserted by Act 18 of
2011, Section 11.][14A. Registration of Tissue Bank.- (1) No Tissue Bank
shall, after the commencement of the Transplantation of Human Organs
(Amendment) Act, 2011, commence any activity relating to the recovery,
screening, testing, processing, storage and distribution of tissues unless it
is duly registered under this Act:Provided that any facility engaged, either
partly or exclusively, in any activity relating to the recovery, screening,
testing, processing, storage and distribution of tissues immediately before
the commencement of the Transplantation of Human Organs (Amendment) Act, 2011,
shall apply for registration as Tissue Bank within sixty days from the date of
such commencement:Provided further that such facility shall cease to engage in
any such activity on the expiry of three months from the date of commencement
of the Transplantation of Human Organs (Amendment) Act, 2011, unless such
Tissue Bank has applied for registration and is so registered, or till such
application is disposed of, whichever is earlier.(2)Every application for
registration under sub-section (1) shall be made to the Appropriate Authority
in such form and in such manner and shall be accompanied by such fees as may
be prescribed.(3)No Tissue Bank shall be registered under this Act unless the
Appropriate authority is satisfied that such Tissue Bank is in a position to
provide such specialised services and facilities, possess such skilled
manpower and equipments and maintain such standards as may be prescribed.]
[Substituted by Act 16 of 2011, Section 7.]

### 15. Certificate of registration

(1)The Appropriate Authority shall, after holding an inquiry and after
satisfying itself that the applicant has complied with all the requirements of
this Act and the rules made thereunder, [grant to the hospital or to the
Tissue Bank, as the case may be,] [Substituted for the words "grant to the
hospital" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 13.] a certificate of registration in
such form, for such period and subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed.(2)If, after the inquiry and after giving an opportunity to the
applicant of being heard, the Appropriate Authority is satisfied that the
applicant has not complied with the requirements of this Act and the rules
made thereunder, it shall, for reasons to be recorded in writing, reject the
application for registration.(3)Every certificate of registration shall be
renewed in such manner and on payment of such fees as may be prescribed.

### 16. Suspension or cancellation of registration

(1)The Appropriate Authority may, suo motu or on complaint, issue a notice to
any [hospital or Tissue Bank, as the case may be,] [Substituted for the words
"hospital" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 14.] to show cause why its registration
under this Act should not be suspended or cancelled for the reasons mentioned
in the notice.(2)If, after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to
the [hospital or Tissue Bank, as the case may be,] [Substituted for the words
"hospital" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 14.], the Appropriate Authority is
satisfied that there has been a breach of any of the provisions of this Act or
the rules made thereunder, it may, without prejudice to any criminal action
that it may take against such [hospital or Tissue Bank, as the case may be,]
[Substituted for the words "hospital" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 14.], suspend
its registration for such period as it may think fit or cancel its
registration:Provided that where the Appropriate Authority is of the opinion
that it is necessary or expedient so to do in the public interest, it may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, suspend the registration of any [hospital
or Tissue Bank, as the case may be,] [Substituted for the words "hospital" by
Act 16 of 2011, Section 14.] without issuing any notice.

### 17. Appeals

.Any person aggrieved by an order of the Authorisation Committee rejecting an
application for approval under sub-section (6) of section 9, or any hospital
[or Tissue Bank, as the case may be,] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section
15.] aggrieved by an order of the Appropriate Authority rejecting an
application for registration under sub-section (2) of section 15 or an order
of suspension or cancellation of registration under sub-section (2) of section
16, may, within thirty days from the date of the receipt of the order, prefer
an appeal, in such manner as may be prescribed, against such order to(i)the
Central Government where the appeal is against the order of the Authorisation
Committee constituted under clause (a) of sub-section (4) of section 9 or
against the order of the Appropriate Authority appointed under sub-section (1)
of section 13; or(ii)the State Government, where the appeal is against the
order of the Authorisation Committee constituted under clause (b) of sub-
section (4) of section 9 or against the order of the Appropriate Authority
appointed under sub-section (2) of section 13.

## Chapter VI  
Offences And Penalties

### 18. Punishment for removal of human organ without authority

(1)Any person who renders his services to or at any hospital and who, for
purposes of transplantation, conducts, associates with, or helps in any manner
in, the removal of any human organ without authority, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to [ten years and with fine which may
extend to twenty lakh rupees.] [Substituted for the words "five years and with
fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees" by Act 16 of 2011, Section
16.](2)Where any person convicted under sub-section (1) is a registered
medical practitioner, his name shall be reported by the Appropriate Authority
to the respective State Medical Council for taking necessary action including
the removal of his name from the register of the Council for a period of
[three years] [Substituted for the words "two years" by Act 16 of 2011,
Section 6.] for the first offence and permanently for the subsequent
offence.(3)[ Any person who renders his services to or at any hospital and who
conducts, or associates with or helps in any manner in the removal of human
tissues without authority, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to three years and with fine which may extend to five lakh
rupees.] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 16.]

### 19. Punishment for commercial dealings in human organs

.Whoever(a)makes or receives any payment for the supply of, or for an offer to
supply, any human organ;(b)seeks to find a person willing to supply for
payment any human organ;(c)offers to supply any human organ for
payment;(d)initiates or negotiates any arrangement involving the making of any
payment for the supply of, or for an offer to supply, any human organ;(e)takes
part in the management or control of a body of persons, whether a society,
firm or company, whose activities consist of or include the initiation or
negotiation of any arrangement referred to in clause (d); or(f)publishes or
distributes or causes to be published or distributed any
advertisement,(a)inviting persons to supply for payment of any human
organ;(b)offering to supply any human organ for payment; or(c)indicating that
the advertiser is willing to initiate or negotiate any arrangement referred to
in clause (d),(g)[ abets in the preparation or submission of false documents
including giving false affidavits to establish that the donor is making the
donation of the human organs, as a near relative or by reason of affection or
attachment towards the recipient.] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 17.]
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
[five years but which may extend to ten years and shall be liable to fine
which shall not be less than twenty lakh rupees but may extend to one crore
rupees] [Substituted for the words "two years but which may extend to seven
years and shall be liable to fine which shall not be less than ten thousand
rupees but may extend to twenty thousand rupees" by Act 16 of 2011, Section
17.]:[* * *] [Proviso "Provided that the Court may, for any adequate and
special reason to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of
imprisonment for a term of less than two years and a fine less than ten
thousand rupees." omitted by Act 16 of 2011, Section 17.][19A. Punishment for
illegal dealings in human tissues. - Whoever-(a)makes or receives any payment
for the supply of, or for an offer to supply, any human tissue; or(b)seeks to
find person willing to supply for payment and human tissue; or(c)offers to
supply any human tissue for payment; or(d)initiates or negotiates any
arrangement involving the making of any payment for the supply of, or for an
offer to supply, any human tissue; or(e)takes part in the management or
control of a body of persons, whether a society, firm or company, whose
activities consist of or include the initiation or negotiation of any
arrangement referred to in clause (d); or(f)publishes or distributes or causes
to be published or distributed any advertisement-(i)inviting persons to supply
for payment of any human tissue; or(ii)offering to supply any human tissue for
payment; or(iii)indicating that the advertiser is willing to initiate or
negotiate any arrangement referred to in clause (d); or(g)abets in the
preparation or submission of false documents including giving false affidavits
to establish that the donor is making the donation of the human tissues as a
near relative or by reason of affection or attachment towards the
recipient,shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be
less than one year but which may extend to three years and shall be liable to
fine which shall not be less than five lakh rupees but which may extend to
twenty-five lakh rupees.]

### 20. Punishment for contravention of any other provision of this Act

.Whoever contravenes any provision of this Act or any rule made, or any
condition of the registration granted, thereunder for which no punishment is
separately provided in this Act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to [five years or with fine which may extend to twenty
lakh rupees] [Substituted for the words "three years or with fine which may
extend to five thousand rupees" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 19.].

### 21. Offences by companies

(1)Where any offence, punishable under this Act, has been committed by a
company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed was in charge
of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the
company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided
that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable
to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission
of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),
where any offence punishable under this Act has been committed by a company
and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director,
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. For the purposes of this section,(a)company means any
body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals;
and(b)director, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 22. Cognizance of offences

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of an offence under this Act except on a
complaint made by(a)the Appropriate Authority concerned, or any officer
authorised in this behalf by the Central Government or the State Government
or, as the case may be, the Appropriate Authority; or(b)a person who has given
notice of not less than sixty days, in such manner as may be prescribed, to
the Appropriate Authority concerned, of the alleged offence and of his
intention to make a complaint to the Court.(2)No Court other than that of a
Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class shall try
any offence punishable under this Act.(3)Where a complaint has been made under
clause (b) of sub-section (1), the Court may, on demand by such person, direct
the Appropriate Authority to make available copies of the relevant records in
its possession to such person.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 23. Protection of action taken in good faith

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of the provisions of this Act.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie
against the Central Government or the State Government for any damage caused
or likely to be caused for anything which is in good faith done or intended to
be done in pursuance of the provisions of this Act.

### 24. Power to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make [rules] [See the
Transplantation of Human Organs Rules, 1995.] for carrying out the purposes of
this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:(a)the manner in which and the conditions subject to which any
donor may authorise removal, before his death, of any [human organ or tissue
or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section
4.] of his body under sub-section (1) of section 3;(aa)[ the human organs or
tissues or both in respect of which duty is cast on registered medical
practitioner, the manner of obtaining documentation for authorisation under
clause (i) of sub-section (1A) of section 3; [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011,
Section 20.](ab)the manner of making the donor or his relative aware under
clause (ii) of sub-section (1A) of section 3;(ac)the manner of informing the
Human Organ Retrieval Centre under clause (iii) of sub-section (1A) of section
3;(ad)the date from which duties mentioned in sub-section (1A) are applicable
to registered medical practitioner working in a unregistered hospital under
subsection (1B) of section 3;(ae)the qualifications and experience of a
technician under the proviso to subsection (4) of section 3;](b)the form and
the manner in which a brain-stem death is to be certified and the conditions
and requirements which are to be satisfied for that purpose under sub-section
(6) of section 3;(ba)[ the conditions for nomination of a surgeon or a
physician and an anaesthetist or intensivist to be included in the Board of
medical experts under the proviso to clause (iii) of sub-section (6) of
section 3;] [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 20.](c)the form and the
manner in which any of the parents may give authority, in the case of brain-
stem death of a minor, for the removal of any [human organ or tissue or both]
[Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] under
sub-section (7) of section 3;(d)the form in which authority for the removal of
any [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ"
by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] from an unclaimed dead body may be given by the
person in charge of the management or control of the hospital or prison, under
sub-section (1) of section 5;(e)the steps to be taken for the preservation of
the [human organ or tissue or both] [Substituted for the words "human organ"
by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] removed from the body of any person, under
section 7;(ea)[ the manner of removal of human organs or tissues or both from
the body of a minor before his death for transplantation under sub-section
(1B) of section 9; [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 20.](eb)the
composition of the Authorisation Committees under sub-section (4) of section
9;](f)the form and the manner in which an application may be jointly made by
the donor and the recipient under sub-section (5) of section 9;(g)the manner
in which all possible effects, complications and hazards connected with the
removal and transplantation is to be explained by the registered medical
practitioner to the donor and the recipient under section 12;(h)the standards
as are to be enforced by the Appropriate Authority for hospitals engaged in
the removal, storage or transplantation of any [human organ or tissue or both]
[Substituted for the words "human organ" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 4.] under
clause (iii) of sub-section (3) of section 13;(i)the other measures as the
Appropriate Authority shall undertake in performing its functions under clause
(vi) of sub-section (3) of section 13;(ia)[ the qualifications of medical
experts and the terms and conditions for appointment to Advisory Committee
under sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 13A; [Inserted by Act 18 of 2011,
Section 20.](ib)the power of the Appropriate Authority in any other matter
under clause (d) of section 13B;(ic)the manner of establishment of a National
Human Organs and Tissues Removal and Storage Network and Regional Network and
functions to be performed by them under section 13C;(id)the information in the
national registry of the donors and recipients of human organs and tissues and
all information under section 13D;](j)the form and the manner in which an
application for registration shall be made and the fee which shall be
accompanied, under sub-section (2) of section 14;(k)the specialised services
and the facilities to be provided, skilled manpower and the equipments to be
possessed and the standards to be maintained by a hospital for registration,
under sub-section (3) of section 14;(ka)[ the qualifications and experience of
a transplant co-ordinator under subsection (4) of section 14; [Inserted by Act
18 of 2011, Section 20.](kb)the form and the manner in which an application
for registration shall be made, and the fee which shall be accompanied, under
sub-section (2) of section 14A;(kc)the specialised services and the facilities
to be provided, skilled manpower and the equipments to be possessed and the
standards to be maintained by a Tissue Bank, under sub-section (3) of section
14A;](l)the form in which, the period for which and the conditions subject to
which certificate of registration is to be granted to a [hospital or Tissue
Bank] [Substituted for the words "hospital" by Act 16 of 2011, Section 20.],
under sub-section (1) of section 15;(m)the manner in which and the fee on
payment of which certificate of registration is to be renewed under sub-
section (3) of section 15;(n)the manner in which an appeal may be preferred
under section 17;(o)the manner in which a person is required to give notice to
the Appropriate Authority of the alleged offence and of his intention to make
a complaint to the Court, under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 22;
and(p)any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Every
rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made,
before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive
sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the
session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree, in making any
modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.

### 25. Repeal and savings

.-(1) The Ear Drums and Ear Bones (Authority for Use for Therapeutic Purposes)
Act, 1982 (28 of 1982) and the Eyes (Authority for Use for Therapeutic
Purposes) Act, 1982 (29 of 1982) are hereby repealed.(2)The repeal shall,
however, not affect the previous operation of the Acts so repealed or anything
duly done or suffered thereunder.[Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section
18.][Inserted by Act 18 of 2011, Section 7.][Inserted by Act 18 of 2011,
Section 7.]

