## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens
Rules, 2009

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules,
2009

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-MAINTENANCE-AND-WELFARE-OF-PARENTS-AND-SENIOR-CITIZENS-
RULES-2009 of 2009

  * Published on 31 December 2009 
  * Commenced on 31 December 2009 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 December 2009.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules,
2009Published vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 170, Social Welfare and
Nutritious Meal Programme (SW6), 31st December 2009, Margazhi 16,
Thiruvalluvar Aandu-2040Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme
DepartmentNo. SRO A-44(b)/2009. - In exercise of the powers conferred by
Section 32 of The Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act,
2007 (Central Act 56 of 2007), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following Rules:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

\- (i) These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Maintenance and Welfare of
Parents and Senior Citizens Rules, 2009.(ii)The rules hereby made shall come
into force on the 31st day of December 2009.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires.--(a)"Act" means the
Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 (Central Act
56 of 2007);(b)"application" means an application made to a Tribunal under
section 5 of the Act;(c)"blood relations" , in the context of a male and a
female inmate, mean father-daughter, mother-son and brother-sister (not
cousins);(d)"Form" means a form appended to these rules;(e)"Government" means
the Government of Tamil Nadu;(f)"inmate" , in relation to an old age home,
means a senior citizen duly admitted to reside in such a home;(g)"Maintenance
Officer" means the officers designated under sub- section (1 ) of section
18;(h)"opposite party" means the party against whom an application for
maintenance has been filed under section 4;(i)"Presiding Officer" means an
officer appointed to preside over a Maintenance Tribunal referred to under
sub-section (2) of section 7, or an Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (2)
of section 15;(j)"Schedule" means a Schedule appended to these
rules(k)"Section" means a section of the Act;(2)Words and expressions used and
not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meaning
respectively assigned to them in the Act.

## Chapter II

### 3. Procedure for filing an application for maintenance, and its
registration.

(1)An application for maintenance under section 4 shall be submitted to the
Tribunal in Form - A, in the manner laid down in clauses (a) and (b) of
subsection 1 of section 5.(2)The application under sub-rule (1) shall be
presented in two complete sets along with an envelope bearing full address of
the respondent. Where the number of respondents is more than one, as many
extra copies of the application as the number of respondents, together with
the required number of empty envelopes bearing the full address of each
respondent shall be furnished by the applicant.(3)On receipt of an application
under sub-rule (1), the Presiding Officer shall cause,-(a)its essential
details to be entered in a Register of Maintenance Claim Cases, to be
maintained as in the Annexure I; and(b)its acknowledgement in Form `B' to be
given notwithstanding anything contained in rule 5, to the applicant or his
authorized representative in case of hand delivery, and its despatch by post
in other cases and the acknowledgement shall specify, inter-alia, the
registration number of the application.(4)Where a Tribunal takes cognizance of
a maintenance claim suo motu, the Presiding Officer shall, after ascertaining
facts, get Form `A' completed as accurately as possible, through the staff of
the Tribunal, and shall as far as possible, get it authenticated by the
concerned senior citizen or parent, or any person or organisation authorised
by him and shall cause the same to be registered in accordance with clause (a)
of sub-rule (3) above.(5)Extension Officer (Social Welfare) in the Head
Quarters of each Revenue Division will assist the Tribunal to make entry in
the Register of Maintenance Claim Cases and also for filling up of
application.

### 4. Preliminary scrutiny of application.

(1). On receipt of an application under sub-section (1) of section 5, the
Tribunal shall satisfy itself that-(a)the application is complete and(b)the
opposite party has, prima facie, an obligation to maintain the applicant in
terms of Section 4.(2)In case where the Tribunal finds any lacunae in the
application, it may direct the applicant to rectify such lacunae within a
reasonable time limit:-

### 5. Service of Notice and application on the respondent.

(1)Once the Tribunal is satisfied on the points mentioned in sub-rule (1) of
rule 4, it shall cause to be issued to each person against whom an application
for maintenance has been filed, a notice in Form- C along with the copy of the
application and its enclosures shall be issued, after making entries in
maintenance claim cases register as in the format in Annexure I, in the
following manner:--(a)by delivering the notice to the person at his last known
place or residence; or(b)by leaving the notice at his usual or last known
place of residence or business in an envelope addressed to the person; or(c)by
sending the notice by registered post with acknowledgement addressed to the
person at his usual or last known place of residence or business; or(d)the
notice shall be delivered to any person in charge of such place at the moment
; or(e)in case of such delivery not being possible it shall be pasted at a
conspicuous place on the premises.(2)The notice shall require the opposite
party to appear in person, on the date to be specified in the notice and to
show cause, in writing, as to why the application should not be granted and
shall also inform that, in case he fails to respond to it, the Tribunal shall
proceed ex- parte.(3)Simultaneously with the issue of notice under sub-rule
(1) and (2), the applicant(s) shall also be informed of the date mentioned in
sub-rule (2) by a notice issued in Form-D.(4)The provisions of Order V of the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, (Central Act 5 of 1908) shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, for the purpose of service of notice under sub-rules (2) and (3).

### 6. Procedure in case of non-appearance by the Opposite Party.

\- In case, despite service of notice, the opposite party fails to show cause
in response to a notice, the Tribunal shall proceed ex-parte, by taking
evidence of the applicant and making such other inquiry as it deems fit, and
shall pass an order disposing of the application.

### 7. Procedure in case of admission of claim.

\- In case, on the date fixed in the notice issued under rule 5, the opposite
party appears and accepts his liability to maintain the applicant, and the two
parties arrive at a mutually agreed settlement, the Tribunal shall pass an
Order accordingly,.

### 8. Procedure for impleading children or relatives.

(1)An application by the opposite party, under the proviso to subsection (5)
of section 5, to implead any other child or relative of the applicant shall be
filed on the first date of hearing as specified in the notice issued under
sub-rule (2) of rule 5:Provided that no such application shall be entertained
after such first hearing, unless the opposite party shows sufficient cause for
filing it at a later stage.(2)On receipt of an application under sub-rule (1),
the Tribunal shall, if it is prima facie satisfied, after hearing the parties,
about the reasonableness of such application, issue notice to such other child
or relative to show cause why they should not be impleaded as a party, and
shall after giving them an opportunity of being heard, pass an order regarding
their impleadment or otherwise.(3)In case the Tribunal passes an order of
impleadment under sub-rule (2), it shall cause a notice to be issued to such
impleaded party in Form "C" in accordance with rule 5.

### 9. Appointment of Conciliation Officer.

(1)The State Government shall by Notification in the Official Gazette,
designate the District Social Welfare Officer as Conciliation Officer.

### 10. Reference to Conciliation Officer.

(1)In case, on the date fixed in the notice issued under rule 5, the opposite
party appears and show cause against the maintenance claim, the Tribunal shall
seek the opinion of both the parties as to whether they would like the matter
to be referred to a Conciliation Officer and if they are willing, the Tribunal
shall ask them whether they would like the matter to be referred to the
Conciliation Officer or to any other person acceptable to both parties.(2)If
both the parties agree on any person, the Tribunal shall appoint such person
as the Conciliation Officer in the case, and shall refer the matter to the
Conciliation Officer through a letter in Form `E', requesting the Conciliation
Officer to try and work out a settlement acceptable to both parties, within a
period not exceeding one month from the date of receipt of the
reference.(3)The reference in Form `E' shall be accompanied with copies of the
application and replies of the opposite party thereto.

### 11. Proceedings by Conciliation officer.

(1)Upon receipt of a reference under rule 10, the Conciliation Officer shall
hold meetings with the two parties as necessary, and shall try to work out a
settlement acceptable to both the parties, within a period of one month from
the date of receipt of the reference.(2)If the Conciliation Officer succeeds
in working out a settlement acceptable to both the parties, he shall draw up a
memorandum of settlement in Form `F', get it signed by both parties, and
forward it, with a report in Form `G', along with all records of the case
received from the Tribunal, back to the Tribunal within a month from the
receipt of the reference.(3)If the Conciliation Officer is unable to arrive at
a settlement within one month of receipt of a reference under Rule 10, he
shall return the papers received from the Tribunal along with a report in Form
'H', showing efforts made to bring about a settlement and the points of
difference between the two parties which could not be reconciled.

### 12. Maintenance of Register.

(1)The District Social Welfare Officer shall maintain proper records by way of
maintaining registers duly indexed, containing the details of the voluntary
organization providing Age care services as in Annexure II.(2)The District
Social Welfare Officer has powers to inspect Old Age Homes maintained by the
individuals/ a group of individuals/ voluntary organizations / institutions /
Charitable trusts/ statutory bodies etc. and collect data from the
organizations.(3)Any voluntary organization / institution / individuals / a
group of individuals / Charitable trusts/ Statutory bodies etc., running Old
Age Home shall register with District Social Welfare Office of each District.

### 13. Action by the Tribunal in case of settlement before a Conciliation
Officer.

(1)In case, the Tribunal receives a report from the Conciliation Officer under
sub-rule (2) of rule 11 along with a memorandum of settlement, it shall give
notice to both parties to appear before it on a date to be specified in the
notice, and confirm the settlement.(2)In case on the date specified in the
notice as above, the parties appear before the Tribunal and confirm the
settlement arrived at before the Conciliation Officer, the Tribunal shall pass
a final order as agreed in such settlement.

### 14. Action by the Tribunal in other cases.

(1)in case,-(I)the applicant (s) and the opposite parties do not agree for
reference of their dispute to a Conciliation Officer as per Rule 10; or(II)the
Conciliation Officer appointed under Rule 10 sends a report under sub-rule (3)
of Rule 11, conveying inability to work out a settlement acceptable to both
the parties; or(III)no report is received from a Conciliation Officer within
the stipulated time-limit of one month; or(IV)in response to the notice issued
under sub-rule (1) of Rule 13, one or both the parties decline to confirm the
settlement worked out by the Conciliation Officer;the Tribunal shall give to
both the parties an opportunity of leading evidence in support of their
respective claims, and shall, after a summary inquiry as provided in sub
section (1) of Section 8, pass such order as it deems fit.(2)An order passed
under rule 6, rule 7 or under sub-rule (1) above shall be a speaking one,
spelling out the facts of the case as ascertained by the Tribunal, and the
reasons for the order.(3)While passing an order under sub-rule (1), directing
the opposite party to pay maintenance to an applicant, the Tribunal shall take
the following into consideration:-(a)amount needed by the applicant to meet
his basic needs, especially food, clothing, accommodation, and
healthcare;(b)income of the opposite party; and(c)value of, and actual and
potential income from the property, if any, of the applicant which the
opposite party would inherit and/or is in possession of.(2)A copy of every
order passed, whether final or interim, on an application, shall be given to
the applicant(s) and the opposite party or their representatives, in person,
or shall be sent to them through a process server or by registered post and a
copy shall be communicated to the maintenance officer.

### 15. Maximum maintenance allowances.

\- The maximum maintenance allowance which a Tribunal may order the opposite
party to pay shall, subject to a maximum of rupees ten thousand per month, be
fixed in such a manner that it does not exceed the monthly income from all
sources of the opposite party, divided by the number of persons in his family,
counting the applicant or applicants also among the opposite party's family
members.

## Chapter III  
Procedure of Appellate Tribunal

### 16. Form of appeal.

\- An appeal under sub-section (1) of section 16 shall be filed before the
Appellate Tribunal in Form `I', and shall be accompanied by a copy of the
impugned order of the Maintenance Tribunal.

### 17. Registration and Acknowledgement of appeal.

\- On receipt of an appeal, the Appellate Tribunal shall register it in a
register to be maintained for the purpose in such form as the Government may
direct, and shall, after registering such appeal, give an acknowledgement to
the appellant, specifying the appeal number and the next date of hearing, in
Form `J'.

### 18. Notice of hearing to the respondent.

(1)On receipt of an appeal, the Appellate Tribunal shall, after registering
the case and assigning an appeal number, cause notice to be served upon the
respondent under its seal and signature in Form `K'.(2)The notice under sub-
rule (1) shall be issued through registered post with acknowledgement due, or
through a process server.(3)The provisions of order V of the Civil Procedure
Code(Central Act 5 of 1908) shall apply mutatis mutandis for the purposes of
service of notice issued under sub-rule (1).

## Chapter IV  
Scheme for Management of old age Homes Established under Section 19

### 19. Scheme for management of old age homes for indigent Senior Citizens.

(1)Old age homes established under section 19 shall be run in accordance with
the following norms and standards:--(A)the home shall have physical facilities
and shall be run in accordance with the operational norms as laid down in the
Schedule.(B)inmates of the home shall be selected in accordance with the
following procedure:-(a)admission shall be considered on the need basis. Cases
referred by the District Collector, Police officials etc., shall be admitted
day to day if necessity arises.(b)in case the number of eligible applicants on
any occasion is more than the number of places available in a home for
admission, selection of inmates will be made in the following manner:-(i)the
more indigent and needy will be given preference over the less indigent
applicants;(ii)other things being equal, older senior citizens will be given
preference over the less old; and(iii)other things being equal, female
applicants will be given preference over male applicants. Illiterate and/ or
very infirm senior citizens may also be admitted without any formal
application if the District Collector or other competent authority, designated
by him for the purpose, is satisfied that the senior citizen is not in a
position to make a formal application, but is badly in need of
shelter,(C)while considering cases for admission, no distinction shall be made
on the basis of religion or caste;(D)the home shall provide separate lodging
for men and women inmates, unless a male and a female inmates are either blood
relations or a married couple;(E)day-to-day affairs of the old age home shall
be managed by a Management Committee as in Annexure III.(2)Government may
issue detailed guidelines/orders from time to time for admission into and
management of old age homes in accordance with the norms and standards laid
down in sub-rule (1) and the Schedule.

## Chapter V  
Duties and Powers of the District Collector

### 20. Duties and powers of the District Collector.

(1)The District Collector shall perform the duties and exercise the powers
mentioned in sub-rule (2) and (3) so as to ensure that the provisions of the
Act are properly carried out in his district.(2). It shall be the duty of the
District Collector to, -(i)ensure that life and property of senior citizens of
the district are protected and they are able to live with security and
dignity;(ii)oversee and monitor the work of Maintenance Tribunals and
Maintenance Officers of the district with a view to ensuring timely and fair
disposal of applications for maintenance, and execution of Tribunals'
orders;(iii)oversee and monitor the working of old age homes in the district
so as to ensure that they conform to the standards laid down in these rules,
and any other guidelines and orders of the Government;(iv)ensure regular and
wide publicity of the provisions of the Act, and Central and State
Governments' programmes for the welfare of senior citizens;(v)encourage and
coordinate with panchayats, municipalities, Nehru Yuva Kendras, educational
institutions and especially their National Service Scheme Units,
organizations, specialists, experts, activists, etc. working in the district
so that their resources and efforts are effectively pooled for the welfare of
senior citizens of the district;(vi)ensure provision of timely assistance and
relief to senior citizens in the event of natural calamities and other
emergencies;(vii)ensure periodic sensitisation of officers of various
Departments and Local Bodies concerned with welfare of senior citizens,
towards the needs of such citizens, and the duty of the officers towards the
latter;(viii)review the progress of investigation and trial of cases relating
to senior citizens in the district, except in cities having a Police
Commissioner;(ix)ensure that adequate number of prescribed application forms
for maintenance are available in offices of common contact for citizens like
Panchayats, Block Development Offices, Tahsildar offices, District Social
Welfare Offices, Collectorate etc;(x)promote establishment of dedicated
Helplines for senior citizens at district headquarters, to begin with;
and(xi)perform such other function as the Government, may by order, assign to
the District Collector in this behalf, from time to time.(3)With a view to
performing the duties mentioned in sub-rule(2), the District Collector shall
be competent to issue such directions, not inconsistent with the Act, these
rules, and general guidelines of the Government, as may be necessary, to any
concerned Government or statutory agency or body working in the district, and
especially to the following:-(a)Officers of the Government in the Police,
Health and Publicity Departments, and the Department dealing with welfare of
senior citizens;(b)Maintenance Tribunals and Conciliation
Officers;(c)Panchayats and Municipalities; and(d)Educational institutions.

## Chapter VI  
Protection of Life and Property of Senior Citizens

### 21. Action plan for the protection of life and property of Senior
Citizens.

(1)The District Superintendent of Police and in the case of cities having a
Police Commissioner, such Police Commissioner shall take all necessary steps,
subject to such guidelines as the Government may issue from time to time for
the protection of life and property of senior citizens.(2)Without prejudice to
the generality of sub-rule (1):-(i)each police station shall maintain an up-
to-date list of senior citizens living within its jurisdiction, especially
those who are living by themselves (i.e. without there being any member in
their household who is not a senior citizen);(ii)a representative of the
police station together as far as possible, with a social worker or volunteer,
shall visit such senior citizens at regular intervals of atleast once a month,
and shall, in addition, visit them as quickly as possible on receipt of a
request of assistance from them;(iii)complaints/problems of senior citizens
shall be promptly attended to, by the local Police;(iv)one or more Volunteers'
Committee(s) shall be formed for each Police Station which shall ensure
regular contact between the senior citizens, especially those living by
themselves, on the one hand, and the police and the district administration on
the other;(v)the District Superintendent of Police or, as the case may be, the
Police Commissioner shall cause to be publicised widely in the media and
through the Police Stations, at regular intervals, the steps being taken for
the protection of life and property of senior citizens;(vi)each Police Station
shall maintain a separate Register containing all important particulars
relating to offences committed against Senior Citizens as in Annexure
IV;(vii)the Register referred to in clause (vi) shall be kept available for
public inspection, and every officer inspecting a Police Station shall
invariably review the status as reflected in the Register;(viii)the Police
Station shall send a monthly report of such crimes to the District
Superintendent of Police by the 10th of every month;(ix)list of Do's and
Don'ts to be followed by senior citizens, in the interest of their safety will
be widely publicised;(x)antecedents of domestic servants and others working
for senior citizens shall be promptly verified, on the request of such
citizens;(xi)community policing for the security of senior citizens will be
undertaken in conjunction with citizens living in the neighbourhood,
Residents' Welfare Associations, Youth Volunteers, Non- Government
Organisations, etc;(xii)the District Superintendent of Police shall submit to
the Director General of Police and to the District Collector, a monthly report
by the 20th of every month, about the status of crimes against senior citizens
during the previous month, including progress of investigation and prosecution
of registered offences, and preventive steps taken during the month;(xiii)the
District Collector shall cause the report to be placed before the District-
level Coordination-cum-Monitoring Committee constituted under rule 23.(xiv)The
Director General of Police shall cause the reports submitted under clause
(xii) to be compiled, once a quarter, and shall submit them to the Government
every quarter as well as every year for, inter-alia, being placed before the
State Council of Senior Citizens constituted under rule 22.

## Chapter VII  
State Council and District Committees of Senior Citizens

### 22. State Council of Senior Citizens.

(1)The State Government may, by order, establish a State Council of Senior
Citizens to advise the Government on effective implementation of the Act and
to perform such other functions in relation to Senior Citizens as the
Government specify(2)The State Council shall consist of the following members,
namely:-

1 | Chief Secretary to Government, Chennai-9. | .. | Chairperson  
---|---|---|---  
2 |  Secretary to Government, RevenueDepartment,Chennai-9 | .. | Member  
3 |  Secretary to Government,Personnel andAdministrative Reforms (Training) Department, Chennai-9. | .. | Member  
4 |  Secretary to Government, Finance Department,Chennai-9. | .. | Member  
5 |  Secretary to Government, Social Welfare andNutritious Meal Programme Department, Chennai-9. | .. | Member  
6 |  Secretary to Government, Health and FamilyWelfare Department, Chennai-9 | .. | Member  
7 |  Secretary to Government, Housing and UrbanDevelopment Department, Chennai-9 | .. | Member  
8 |  Secretary to Government, Transport Department,Chennai-9. | .. | Member  
9 |  Secretary to Government, School EducationDepartment, Chennai-9. | .. | Member  
10 |  Secretary to Government, Public WorksDepartment, Chennai-9 | .. | Member  
11 |  Secretary to Government, Home Department,Chennai-9 | .. | Member  
12 |  Director General of Police, Tamil Nadu,Chennai-4 | .. | Member  
13 |  Member Secretary, Sports & DevelopmentAuthority of Tamil Nadu, Chennai-84. | .. | Member  
14 | Director, Rural Development , Chennai-15 | .. | Member  
15 |  Director, Information & Public Relation,Chennai-9 | .. | Member  
16 | Director, Tourism, Chennai-2 | .. | Member  
17 |  Commissioner, Commissionerate of Social Welfare,Chepauk, Chennai-5. | .. | State Level Nodal Officer and Convener  
18 |  Non-official Members Nominated by the StateGovernment | .. | 7 (Seven)  
  
(3)The tenure of the Non-official members of the State Council shall be three
years.(4)The State Council shall meet at least once in every six months.(5)The
number of Non-official members shall be 7 (seven) and they are eligible for
re-nomination.

### 23. District Committee of Senior Citizens.

(1)The State Government may by order, establish a District Committee of Senior
Citizens for each District to advise in effective and coordinated
implementation of the Act, at the district level, and to perform such other
functions in relation to senior citizens at the district level as the State
Government may specify.(2)The District Committee shall consists of the
following members, namely:--

1 | District Collector | .. | Chairperson  
---|---|---|---  
2 | District Superintendent of Police | .. | Member  
3 | Deputy Director (Health) | .. | Member  
4 | District Social Welfare Officer | .. | Member Secretary  
5 | Reputed Non-Governmental Organisation (Ageing field) (2) (Two) | .. | Member  
6 | Prominent Senior Citizens (2) (Two) | .. | Member  
  
(3)Non-official members shall be nominated by the District Collector
Concerned.(4)The tenure of the Non-official members of the District Committee
shall be three years.(5)The District Committee shall meet at least once in
every three months.(6)The number of Non-official Members shall be 4 (Four) and
they are eligible for re-nomination.

## Schedule

[See Rule (16]Norms of Physical Facilities and Operational Standards for an
Old age Home for IndigentSenior Citizens Established Under Section 19 of the
Act.Physical Facilities

1. | Land : |  The land for the old age home should be adequatefor living, medical facilities, dining, toilet facilities,recreation, gardening, further expansion, etc.,  
---|---|---  
2. | Living Space : |  The Old age home shall, as far as possible, haveminimum area per inmate as per the following norms:-  
|  |  |  |   
|  | (i) area of bedroom/ dormitory per inmate | .. | 7.5.Sq. metres  
|  |  (ii) Living area or carpet area per inmate i.e.including (i) above plus ancillary areas like kitchen, dininghall, recreation room, medical room, etc., but excluding verandah,corridor, etc., | .. | 12 Sq. metres  
3. | Facilities : |  (1) The old age home shall have the followingfacilities:- |  |   
|  |  (i) residential area comprising rooms /dormitories - separately for men and women; |  |   
|  |  (ii) adequate water for drinking and ancillarypurposes; |  |   
|  |  (iii) electricity, fans and heating arrangementfor inmates (as necessary); |  |   
|  | (iv) kitchen-cum-store and office; |  |   
|  | (v) dining hall; |  |   
|  |  (vi) adequate number of toilets and baths,including toilets suitable for disabled persons; |  |   
|  |  (vii) recreation facilities, television,newspaper and an adequate collection of books; and |  |   
|  |  (viii) first aid, sick bay, and primaryhealthcare facilities.  
|  (2) The old age home should be barrier-free with provision oframps and
handrails, and whereever necessary, lifts, etc.,  
  
II Operational standards

### 1\. Supply of nutritious and wholesome diet as per scale to be fixed by
the Government.

### 2\. Adequate clothing and linen for the inmates, including for the winter
season.

### 3\. Adequate arrangements for sanitation, hygiene, and watch and ward /
security.

### 4\. Arrangements with the nearest Government hospital for emergency
medical care, and with the nearest Police Station for security requirements.

Form - A(See Rule 3)Application Under Rule 3 of the Tamil Nadu Maintenance and
Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules, 2009

1. | Details of the Applicant | :  
---|---|---  
| i. Name of the Applicant | :  
| ii. Name of the Father / Husband | :  
| iii. Age | :  
| iv. Sex | :  
| v. Permanent Address | :  
| vi. Present Address | :  
| vii. Phone Number if any | :  
  
### 2\. Details of Respondents

S.No. | Name | Relationship with the Applicant | Address | Telephone No. if any  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
### 3\. Assistance Needed

S.No. | Assistance | Yes/No | Nature of Assistance  
---|---|---|---  
1.2.3.4.5.6.7. |  CounsellingFoodMedical FacilitiesShelterLegal AidPolice AssistanceMaintenance |  |   
  
4. | Assistance for initiating Criminal Proceeding | : |   
---|---|---|---  
5. | Facts of the case | : | The facts of the case are given below:-  
  
(Give here a concise statement of facts in a chronological order, each
paragraph containing as neatly as possible a separate issue, fact or
otherwise).

6. | Details of Index | : |  An index in duplicate, containing the details ofthe documents to be relied upon, is enclosed.  
---|---|---|---  
7. | List of enclosures | : |  1\. ..............................2...............................3...............................  
  
DeclarationI........................(Name of the applicant)
S/o,D/o,W/o....................................................age............resident
of ............................................do hereby declare that the
contents for paras 1 to 7 are true to the best of my personal knowledge and
belief and that nothing material has been concealed there from, and also
declare that the subject matter of the order against which I seek redressal is
within the Jurisdiction of the Tribunal. I further declare hereby that the
matter regarding which, this application has been made is not pending before
any court of law or any other authority or has not been rejected by any court
of law or other authority.Place.................Date
.................Signature of the Applicant.ToThe Presiding
Officer(s),...........................................................................................................................Form
- B(See Rule 3)AcknowledgementReceipt of the application filed under Tamil
Nadu Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules, 2009
byThiru/Tmt........................................Address
........................................is hereby acknowledged.for Presiding
Officer.Form-C(See Rule 5)Notice to the Opposite Party(Issued under rule-5 of
the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules,
2009)To.................................................................................................Sir/Madam,An
application has been filed by Mr/Mrs. ................. residing at
.................against you for not paying maintenance and you are requested
to appear before the Tribunal in person on ................ day of
.................... at 10.30 AM and render your reply why the application
should not be ordered against you on the above failing which the matter will
be decided exparte.Seal with date andSignature of thePresiding
Officer.Form-D(See Rule 5)Notice to the Petitioner/ Applicant(Issued under
rule-5 of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules,
2009)To.................................................................................................Sir/Madam,On
application filed by you seeking maintenance under Maintenance and Welfare of
Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 from Thiru/Tmt. .................
residing at ................., you are required to appear in person before the
Tribunal on ................ day of ............... for hearing. Kindly attend
on the above date at 10.30 AM, failing which the matter will be decided
exparte.Seal with date andSignature of thePresiding Officer.Form-E(See Rule
10)ToThe Conciliation
Officer.................................................................Sir/Madam,The
Tribunal is herewith forwarding to your kindself the petition bearing
No................... dated........................ received from Thiru/
Tmt.......................... residing at .................. Street,
.................... Village. ..................... Block seeking maintenance
under Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 and you
are requested to arrive a settlement which is acceptable to both parties and
the findings may be informed to this Tribunal within a period not exceeding
one month, from the date of receipt of the references. If any amicable
settlement is arrived that may also be informed to this Tribunal so as to
enable this Tribunal to pass an order to that effect. If you are unable to
arrive at a settlement within one month from the receipt of the reference, you
shall return the papers along with a report showing efforts made by you to
bring about settlement. Copies of application, replies of the opposite party
along with relevant records are herewith enclosed for reference at your
end.Presiding Officer.Form - F(See Rule 11)Before the Tribunal for Maintenance
and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens.O.P.No. of 2009AB
......PetitionerVs.CD ..... RespondentToThe Presiding Officer,Tribunal for
Maintenance of Parents and Senior Citizens.....................
Division,.................... District.Sir/Madam,The Hon'ble Tribunal had
referred me the petition of Thiru/Tmt............................ residing at
..................................street, ...................... Block,
................. District, bearing the No.............. to arrive the
settlement of maintenance acceptable to both parties. It is arrived at a sum
of Rs.............../- per month as maintenance payable to the Petitioner by
the respondent. Both parties have accepted the above settlement arrived at by
me.Signature of the applicant.Signature of the opposite party.Conciliation
Officer.Form - G(See Rule 11)Before the Tribunal for Maintenance and Welfare
of Parents and Senior Citizens.O.P.No. of 2009AB ......PetitionerVs.CD .....
RespondentReport of the Conciliation OfficerI have carefully considered the
application and the records filed by Senior Citizen, who is unable to maintain
himself/herself from his own earning or out of the property owned by him/her.
The record shows about the property of the legal heirs, income of the legal
heirs, position of the property of the Senior Citizen and after his/her life
time the legal heir would inherit the property.On Scrutinizing the available
records, I have arrived at the amount of Maintenance as
Rs............................ payable to Thiru/
Tmt..............................................the Senior Citizen by
Thiru........................ the legal heirs of the Senior Citizen.Herewith,
I return all records of the case received from the Tribunal.Signature with
seal of the Conciliation Officer.Form - H(See Rule 11)Before the Tribunal for
Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens.O.P.No. of 2009AB
......PetitionerVs.CD ..... RespondentToThe Presiding OfficerTribunal for
Maintenance of Parents and Senior
Citizens.......................................................................Sir/Madam,The
Hon'ble Tribunal had referred the above matter to arrive a settlement and the
period fixed for the same is one month. I am unable to arrive a settlement
within the said period for the reasons stated in my report which shows the
efforts taken by me to arrive a settlement along with the points of difference
between the two parties which could not be reconciled. I hereby also return
the papers referred to me alongwith my report.Signature with seal of the
Conciliation Officer.Form - I(See Rule 16)Memorandum of Civil Miscellaneous
Appeal under Section 16 of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior
Citizens Act, 2007.Appellate Tribunal of Maintenance of Parents and Senior
Citizens.Appeal No................... of
2009againstO.P.No....................... of 2009(On the file of the
........................ Tribunal, ......................... District)AB
...... Appellant/Petitioner

### 1\. CD Vs.

### 2\. EF ..... Respondent/Respondents

I. Appellant: AB son/daughter of the ..................... , aged about
................ years, residing at ................................ The
Address for service of all Notices and Processes on the Appellant is
at...................................II. Respondent(S): (1) CD, at
.......................................(2)EF, at
........................................The Address for service of all notices
and processes on the respondents are ............................III. The
Appellant above named begs to prefer the above appeal against the order
dated....................... made in O.P.No. .............. of 2009 by the
Hon'ble Tribunal on the following among others:GroundsHere mention the points
for appealTherefore, it is prayed that this Hon'ble Tribunal may be pleased to
call for the records of the Tribunal and pass appropriate order / setaside the
order passed on .......... in O.P.No. ........... of 2009 by the ............
Tribunal and thus render justice.Signature of petitioner.(Appellant)Form -
J(See Rule 17)AcknowledgementThe Appeal filed by Thiru/Tmt.
......................................... residing at .................. State
............................ Village ............................ Taluk is
received on this ........................ day of ..................... and the
appeal No is ........................ The next date of hearing is
.......................Signature of representative of theAppellate
AuthorityForm - K(See Rule 18)Before the Tribunal for Maintenance and Welfare
of Parents and Senior Citizens.Appeal No: of 2009AB ......AppellantVs.CD .....
RespondentTo....................................................................................Please
take notice that an appeal is preferred against you and the Appellate Tribunal
has posted it for hearing on ............................. day of
........................ 2009 for your appearance. Kindly be present on the
date of hearing at 10.30 A.M. In case if you fail to respond to it, the
Appellate Tribunal shall proceed ex-parte.for Appellate
Tribunal.Annexure-I(See Rules 3 and 5)Register of Maintenance of Claim Cases
by the Tribunal

S.No. | Name of the applicant with address and Phone No. | Age. | Sex. | Date of receipt of application. | Nature of claim. | Date of notice served. | Date of the hearing. | Details of order if any passed by the Tribunal | Remarks.  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
to the petitioner | to the respondent  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Annexure-II(See Rule 12)List of Voluntary Organisations Providing Age Care
Services

S.No. | Name of the Institution. | Address with Phone No. | Contact person and Phone No. | Services provied for aged persons. | Other activities. | No. of beneficiaries. | Building facilities. | Registered under which Act. | Remarks.  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Male | Female | Own | Rented  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Annexure-III(See Rule 19)Management Committee in Old Age Homes

S.No. | Name of the Officer | Designation  
---|---|---  
1234 |  District SocialWelfare OfficerExtension Officer(SW)Non GovernmentalOrganisationInmates (3 persons) |  ChairmanMemberMemberMember  
  
Annexure-IV(See Rule 21)Details of Offences Comitteed against Senior Citizens

S.No. | Name and address of Senior Citizen. | Age. | Sex. |  Nature of offences committed against seniorcitizen. | Date of incidence. | Stage of investigation. | Prosecution of registered offences. | Steps taken by the police station. | Remarks.  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 

