## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Dramatic Performances Act, 1954

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Dramatic Performances Act, 1954

## Act 33 of 1954

  * Published in Gazette 33 on 21 December 2016 
  * Assented to on 21 December 2016 
  * Commenced on 21 December 2016 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 December 2016.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Dramatic Performances Act, 1954Act No. 33 of 1954WHEREAS it is
expedient to provide for the better control of public dramatic performances in
the State of Tamil Nadu;BE it enacted in the Fifth year of the Republic of
India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and extent.—

(1)This Act may called The Tamil Nadu Dramatic Performances Act, 1954.(2)It
extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires ,—(i)incite any person to
resort to violence or sabotage for the purpose of overthrowing or undermining
the Government established by law in India or in any State thereof or its
authority in any area; or(ii)incite any person to commit murder, sabotage or
any offence involving violence; or(iii)seduce any member of any of the armed
forces of the Union or of the police forces from his allegiance or his duty,
or prejudice the recruiting of persons to serve in any such force or prejudice
the discipline of any such force; or(iv)incite any Section of the citizens of
India to acts of violence against any other Section of the citizens of India;
or which —(v)is deliberately intended to outrage the religious feelings of any
class of the citizens of India by insulting or blaspheming or profaning the
religion or the religious beliefs of that class; or(vi)is grossly indecent, or
is scurrilous or obscene or intended for blackmail; and includes any indecent
or obscene dance.Explanation I.— A performance shall not be deemed to be
objectionable merely because in the course thereof words are uttered, or signs
or visible representations are made, expressing disapprobation or criticism of
any law or of any policy or administrative action of the Government with a
view to obtain its alteration or redress by lawful means.Explanation IA.— The
expression ‘play, pantomime or other drama’ shall include dance whether or not
such dance forms part of such play, pantomime or other drama.Explanation II.—
In judging whether any performance is an objectionable performance, the play,
pantomime or other drama shall be considered as a whole;

### 3. Power to prohibit objectionable performances.—

(1)Whenever the State Government are satisfied that any play, pantomime or
other drama performed or about to be performed in a public place is an
objectionable performance, they may, by order stating the grounds on which
they consider the performance objectionable, prohibit the performance.(2)No
order under sub-section (1) shall be passed without giving a reasonable
opportunity to the organiser or other principal persons responsible for the
conduct of the performance or to the owner or occupier of the public place, in
which such performance is intended to take place to show cause why the
performance should not be prohibited.(3)Every order made under sub-section (1)
shall be published in the Fort St. George, Gazette.(4)Any order made under
sub-section (1) may also be notified by proclamation and a written or printed
notice thereof may be affixed at any place or places adapted for giving
information of the order to the persons intending to take part in the
performance so prohibited.

### 4. Power to prohibit objectionable performances temporarily.—

(1)The Commissioner of Police in the Presidency town or the District Collector
elsewhere may, if he is of opinion that any play, pantomime or other drama
performed or about to be performed, being of the nature specified in Section
2, is likely to lead to a breach of the peace, by order stating the grounds
for such opinion, prohibit its performance:Provided that the officer who
passed such order may review it on an application made by the person or party
affected by such order.(2)Subject to any order made by the Court on appeal
under Section 10, an order under this Section shall remain in force for two
months from the making thereof:Provided that the Commissioner of Police or the
District Collector, as the case may be, may, if he is of opinion that the
order should continue in force, by such further order or orders as he may deem
fit, extend the period aforesaid by such further period or periods not
exceeding two months at a time as may be specified in such order or orders.

### 5. Service of order of prohibition.—

A copy of the order made under Section 3, subsection (1), or under Section 4,
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), may be served personally or in such other
manner as may be prescribed by Rules made under Section 13, on the organisers
or other principal persons responsible for the conduct of, or any person about
to take part in the performance so prohibited or on the owner or occupier of
the public place, in which such performance is intended to take place.

### 6. Penalty for disobeying order.—

Any person on whom a copy of the order referred to in Section 3 or Section 4
is served and who does, or willingly permits, any act in disobedience of such
order, shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees, or with both.

### 7. Penalty for disobeying prohibition.—

(1)Any person who, after the publication of an order under Section 3, sub-
section (3), or during the period when an order made under Section 4, sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2), is in force organises or is responsible for
the conduct of or who with the knowledge that such an order under Section 3 or
Section 4 is in force takes part in, the performance prohibited thereby or any
performance substantially the same as the performance so prohibited, shall, on
conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with
both.(2)Any person who being the owner or occupier, or having the use of any
public place, opens, keeps or uses the same for any performance prohibited
under Section 3 or Section 4, or permits the same to be opened, kept or used
for any such performance, shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 8. Power to call for information.—

(1)For the purpose of ascertaining the character of any intended play,
pantomime or other drama, the State Government, or such officer as they may
empower in this behalf, may, by order, require the organisers or other
principal persons responsible for the conduct of, or other persons about to
take part in, such play, pantomime or other drama or the author, proprietor or
printer of the play, pantomime or other drama about to be performed, or the
owner or occupier of the place in which it is intended to be performed, to
furnish such information as the State Government or such officer may think
necessary.(2)Every person so required shall be bound to furnish the
information to the best of his ability within the time specified in such order
and in case of contravention shall be deemed to have committed an offence
under Section 176 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act 45 of 1860).

### 9. Power to call for copy or purport of drama, etc.—

(1)If the State Government or in the Presidency town, the Commissioner of
Police or elsewhere the District Collector, have or has reason to believe that
an objectionable dramatic performance is about to take place, they or he, as
the case may be, may, by order, direct that no such dramatic performance shall
take place in any public place within any area, unless a copy of the piece, if
and so far as it is written, or some sufficient account of its purport, if and
so far as it is in pantomime, has been furnished, not less than seven days
before the performance, to the State Government, the Commissioner of Police or
the District Collector aforesaid.(2)A copy of any order made under sub-section
(1) may be served on the owner or occupier of the public place, in which such
performance is intended to take place and if thereafter he does or willingly
permits, any act in disobedience of such order, he shall, on conviction, be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or
with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 10. Appeal to High Court.—

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order under Section 3, subsection (1), or under
Section 4, sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), may, within sixty days of the
publication of such order under Section 3, sub-section (3), or, as the case
may be, within sixty days of the date on which an order under Section 4, sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2), is made prefer an appeal to the High Court;
and upon such appeal, the High Court may pass such orders as it deems fit
confirming, varying or reversing the order appealed from, and may pass such
consequential or incidental orders as may be necessary.(2)Every such appeal
shall be heard by a Bench of not less than two Judges.

### 11. Saving of prosecutions under other laws.—

Where no order under Section 3 or Section 4 has been made in respect of any
performance, nothing in this Act shall bar a prosecution under the Indian
Penal Code (Central Act 45 of 1860) or any other law.

### 12. Protection for acts done in good faith.—

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall be instituted against any
authority or officer for any thing which is in good faith done or intended to
be done under this Act or any Rule made thereunder.

### 13. Power to make Rules.—

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Fort St. George Gazette,
make Rules to carry out the purpose of this Act.(2)All Rules made by the State
Government under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as possible after they are
made, be laid on the table of the Houses of the Legislature.

### 14. Repeal of Central Act 19 of 1876.—

The Dramatic Performances Act, 1876, (Central Act 19 of 1876), in so far as it
applies to the State of Tamil Nadu is hereby repealed.

