## Union of India - Act

## The Tripura University Act, 2006

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Tripura University Act, 2006

## Act 9 of 2007

  * Published on 10 January 2007 
  * Commenced on 10 January 2007 
  * [This is the version of this document as it was from 29 September 2009 to None.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Puducherry Value Added Tax Act, 2007(Act No. 9 of 2007)Last Updated 17th
December, 2019[Dated 1.12.2007].An Act to provide for the levy and collection
of value added tax on the sale or purchase of goods in the Union territory of
Puducherry and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it
enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Puducherry in the Fifty-eighth year of
the Republic of India as follows:-CHAPTER - I Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Puducherry Value Added Tax Act, 2007.(2)It
extends to the whole of the Union territory of Puducherry.(3)It shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of July 2007.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,?(a)"Appellate Assistant
Commissioner" means any person appointed to be an Appellate Assistant
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes under section 3 of this Act;(b)"Appellate
Tribunal" means the Puducherry Value Added Tax Appellate Tribunal appointed
under section 44 of this Act;(c)"assessee" means a dealer by whom tax is
payable either by collecting the same or otherwise;(d)"assessing authority"
means any officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Tax Officer
authorised by the Commissioner to make any assessment under this
Act;(e)"assessment" means determination of business turnover of a dealer in
the prescribed manner to ascertain the tax liability under this Act by self-
assessment, re-assessment, and assessment by scrutiny and best judgment
assessment;(f)"Assistant Commercial Tax Officer" means any person appointed by
the Commissioner by name or by virtue of his office, to exercise the powers of
an Assistant Commercial Tax Officer;(g)"Assistant Commissioner" means any
person appointed to be an "Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes" under
section 3 of this Act;(h)"authorised" means authorised by the Commissioner to
perform any duties and exercise any powers under this Act;(i)"business"
includes-(i)any trade, commerce, manufacture, or any adventure or concern in
the nature of trade, commerce, manufacture, whether or not such trade,
commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern is carried on with a motive to
make gain or profit and whether or not any profit accrues from such trade,
commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern; and(ii)any transaction in
connection with or incidental or ancillary to such trade, commerce,
manufacture, adventure or concern;(j)"capital goods" means plant, machinery
and equipment used in the business including manufacture of goods;(k)"casual
trader" means a person who, whether as principal, agent or in any other
capacity, undertakes occasional transactions of a business nature involving
the buying, selling, supplying or distributing of goods in the Union
territory, whether for cash or for deferred payment or for commission,
remuneration or other valuable consideration, and who does not reside or has
no fixed place of business within the Union Territory;(l)"Commercial Tax
Officer" means any person appointed to be a Commercial Tax Officer under
section 3 of this Act;(m)"Commissioner" means any person appointed to be a
'Commissioner of Commercial Taxes' under section 3 of this Act;(n)"dealer"
means any person who carries on the business of buying, selling, supplying or
distributing goods, directly or otherwise, whether for cash or for deferred
payment or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration, and
includes -(i)a company, Hindu undivided family (HUF), partnership firm or
other association of persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated which
carries on such business;(ii)a casual trader;(iii)a commission agent, a broker
or a del-credere agent or an auctioneer or a factor or any other mercantile
agent, by whatever name called and whether of the same description as
hereinbefore or not, who carries on the business of buying, selling, supplying
or distributing goods on behalf of any principal;(iv)every local branch of a
firm or company or association situated outside the Union Territory and a non-
resident dealer or an agent of a non-resident dealer;(v)a person who sells
goods produced by him by manufacture or otherwise;(vi)a person engaged in the
business of transfer, otherwise than in pursuance of a contract, of property
in any goods for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration;(vii)a
person engaged in the business of transfer of property in goods (whether as
goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of a works
contract;(viii)a person engaged in the business of delivery of goods on hire-
purchase or any system of payment by instalments;(ix)a person engaged in the
business of transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or
not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable
consideration;(x)a person engaged in the business of supplying by way of or as
part of any service or in any other manner whatsoever, of goods, being food or
any other article for human consumption or any drink (whether or not
intoxicating), where such supply or service is for cash, deferred payment or
other valuable consideration;(xi)a society (including a co-operative society),
club or firm or an association which, whether or not in the course of
business, buys or sells goods from or to its members for cash or for deferred
payment or for commission, remuneration or other valuable
consideration;(xii)an industrial, commercial, banking, insurance or trading
undertaking whether or not of the Central Government or any of the State
Governments or of a local authority; and(xiii)a department of the Central
Government or any State Government or any Union Territory Administration or a
local authority by name of any panchayat, municipality, Development Authority
or any autonomous or statutory body including a Port Trust and the like which,
whether or not in the course of business, buys, sells, supplies or distributes
goods, directly or otherwise, for cash, or for deferred payment, or for
commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration;(o)"Deputy Commercial
Tax Officer" means any person appointed by the Commissioner by name or by
virtue of his office, to exercise the powers of a Deputy Commercial Tax
Officer;(p)"Deputy Commissioner" means any person appointed to be a 'Deputy
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes' under section 3 of this Act;(q)"document"
means title deeds, writing or inscriptions and includes electronic data stored
in tape, disc or such other form that furnishes evidence;(r)"goods" means all
kinds of movable property (other than newspapers, actionable claims, stocks
and shares and securities) and includes livestock, all materials, commodities
and articles including the goods (tangible or intangible) and property in
goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of a
works contract, transfer of right to use or hire-purchase or those goods to be
used in the fitting out, improvement or repair of movable property and all
growing crops, grass or things attached to or forming part of the land which
are agreed to be severed before sale or under a contract of
sale;(s)"Government" means the Administrator of the Union Territory appointed
by the President under article 239 of the Constitution;(t)"Government
representative" means any person appointed to be the Government representative
under section 3 of this Act and includes an officer authorised by the
Commissioner under that section to perform the functions on behalf of the
Government in proceedings before the Appellate Tribunal, such as -(i)to
prepare and sign applications, appeals and other documents;(ii)to appear,
represent, and plead;(iii)to receive notices and other processes; and(iv)to do
all other acts connected with such proceedings;(u)"input" means goods
purchased by a dealer in the course of his business for resale including
deemed sales or for use in manufacturing, processing, packing of other goods
for sale;(v)"input tax" means tax on inputs paid or payable;(w)"Joint
Commissioner" means any person appointed to be a 'Joint Commissioner of
Commercial Taxes' under section 3 of this Act;(x)"manufacture" includes any
activity that brings out a change in an article or articles as a result of
some process, treatment, labour and results in transformation into a new and
different article so understood in commercial parlance having a distinct name,
character, use but does not include any such activity as may be notified by
the Government as not manufacture for the purposes of this clause;(y)"output"
means goods sold by a dealer;(z)"output tax" in relation to a dealer means the
tax charged or chargeable in respect of goods sold by that dealer;(za)"place
of business" means any place where a dealer purchases or sells goods and
includes warehouses, godowns or other places where a dealer stores his goods,
processes, produces or manufactures goods or any other place where business
activity takes place including the place where the books of accounts are
maintained and kept;(i)a transfer, otherwise than in pursuance of a contract,
of property in any goods for cash, deferred payment or other valuable
consideration;(ii)a transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some
other form) involved in the execution of a works contract;(iii)a delivery of
goods on hire-purchase or any system of payment by instalments;(iv)a transfer
of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified
period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration;(v)a supply
of goods by any unincorporated association or body of persons to a member
thereof for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration;(vi)a
supply, by way of or as part of any service or in any other manner whatsoever,
of goods, being food or any other article for human consumption or any drink
(whether or not intoxicating), where such supply or service, is for cash,
deferred payment or other valuable consideration, and such transfer, delivery
or supply of any goods shall be deemed to be a sale of those goods by the
person making the transfer, delivery or supply and a purchase of those goods
by the person to whom such transfer, delivery or supply is made;(vii)every
transfer of property in goods, by a department of the Central Government or
any State Government or Union Territory Administration or a local authority by
name of any panchayat, municipality, Development Authority or any autonomous
or statutory body including a Port Trust and the like, for cash or for
deferred payment or other valuable consideration, whether or not in the course
of business.(zb)"prescribed" means prescribed by the rules made under this
Act;(zc)"registered dealer" means a dealer registered under this
Act;(zd)"rules" means rules made under this Act;(ze)"sale" with all its
grammatical variations and cognate expressions means every transfer of
property in goods (other than by way of mortgage, hypothecation, charge or
pledge) by one person to another in the course of business for cash, deferred
payment or other valuable consideration and includes-Explanation-I. -
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act or any other
law for the time being in force, two independent sales or purchases shall, for
the purpose of this Act, be deemed to have taken place-(a)when the goods are
transferred from a principal to his selling agent and from the selling agent
to the purchaser;(b)when the goods are transferred from the seller to a buying
agent and from the buying agent to his principal, if in either case the agent
is found -(1)to have sold the goods at one rate and to have passed on the sale
proceeds to his principal at another rate; or(2)to have purchased the goods at
one rate and to have passed the same on to his principal at another rate;
or(3)not to have accounted to his principal for the entire collections or
deductions made by him in the sales or purchases effected by him on behalf of
his principal; or(4)to have acted for a fictitious or non-existent
principal.Explanation - II. - The sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed,
for the purposes of this Act, to have taken place in the Union Territory,
wherever the contract of sale or purchase might have been made, if the goods
are within the Union Territory-(a)in the case of specific or ascertained
goods, at the time the contract of sale or purchase is made, and(b)in the case
of unascertained or future goods at the time of their appropriation to the
contract of sale or purchase by the seller or by the purchaser, whether the
assent of the other party is prior or subsequent to such
appropriation;(zf)"Schedule" means the Schedules appended to this
Act;(zg)"Secretary" means the Secretary to the Government of Puducherry in-
charge of Commercial Taxes;(zh)"special economic zone unit" means a unit
established in the special economic zone as notified under the proviso to sub-
section (4) of section 3 and sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Special
Economic Zones Act, 2005, (Central Act 28 of 2005.) and under section 76-A of
the Customs Act, 1962, (Central Act 52 of 1962.) and includes units
established under the 100 per cent export oriented scheme, export processing
zone scheme, electronic hardware technology park scheme or software technology
park scheme, as framed under Export and Import Policy, as formulated under
section 5 of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992,
(Central Act 22 of 1992.) and as amended from time to time;Explanation. - For
the purposes of this clause, the expression "Special Economic Zone Unit" will
also include a "Co-Developer" and a "Developer" as defined respectively in
clauses (f) and (g) of section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005,
(Central Act 28 of 2005.).(zi)"tax" means value added tax, and includes any
other tax chargeable under this Act;(zj)"tax invoice" means a document of sale
issued by a dealer to a buyer at the time of sale describing the goods sold,
the quantity, value and tax collected thereon and such other information as
may be prescribed;(zk)"tax period" means a calendar month;(zl)"taxable
turnover" means the turnover on which a dealer shall be liable to pay tax as
determined after making such deductions from his total turnover and in such
manner as may be prescribed;(zm)"total turnover" means the aggregate turnover
in all goods of a dealer at all places of business in the Union Territory,
whether or not the whole or any portion of such turnover is liable to
tax;(zn)"turnover" means the aggregate amount for which goods are bought or
sold or delivered or supplied or otherwise disposed of in any of the ways
referred to in clause (ze), by a dealer either directly or through another, on
his own account or on account of others, whether for cash or for deferred
payment or other valuable consideration, provided that the proceeds of the
sale by a person of agricultural or horticultural produce, other than tea
grown within the Union Territory by himself on any land in which he has an
interest whether as owner, usufructuary mortgagee, tenant or otherwise shall
be excluded from his turnover.Explanation-I. - The expression "agricultural or
horticultural produce" shall not include such produce as has been subjected to
any physical, chemical or other process for being made fit for consumption,
save mere cleaning, grading, sorting or drying.Explanation-II. - Subject to
such conditions and restrictions, if any, as may be prescribed in this
behalf-(a)the amount for which goods are sold shall include any sums charged
for anything done by the dealer in respect of the goods sold at the time of,
or before the delivery thereof;(b)any cash or other discount on the price
allowed, in respect of any sale and any amount refunded in respect of articles
returned by customers shall not be included in the turnover; andExplanation-
III. - "Turnover" in relation to the transfer of property in goods (whether as
goods or in some other form) involved in execution of works contract includes
such amount as is arrived at by deducting from the amount of valuable
consideration paid or payable to a person for execution of such works
contract, the amount representing labour and other charges incurred and profit
accrued not in connection with transfer of property in goods for such
execution;(zo)"Union Territory" means the Union Territory of
Puducherry;(zp)"works contract" includes any agreement to carrying out for
cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration, the building,
construction, manufacture, processing, fabrication, erection, installation,
fitting out, improvement, modification, repair or commissioning, of any
movable or immovable property;(zq)"year" means the financial year;
and(zr)"zero rated transaction" means a transaction of sale of goods on which
no tax is chargeable but credit for the input tax related to such sales is
allowable.

### 3. Appointment of various authorities under this Act.

\- The Government may appoint a Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and as many
Joint Commissioners of Commercial Taxes, Deputy Commissioners of Commercial
Taxes, Appellate Assistant Commissioners of Commercial Taxes, Assistant
Commissioners of Commercial Taxes, a Government representative, Commercial Tax
Officers and such other persons with such designations as may be necessary for
the purposes of performing the functions respectively conferred on them by or
under this Act and such officers shall perform the said functions within such
local limits as the Government or any authority or officer authorised in this
behalf may assign to them.CHAPTER - II Registration

### 4. Dealers liable for registration.

\- Every dealer. -(i)carrying on business before the commencement of this Act;
or(ii)commencing business after the commencement of this Act, and whose total
turnover in any year is not less than rupees ten lakhs shall be liable to be
registered under this Act:Provided that a dealer exclusively dealing in goods
mentioned in the First Schedule shall not be liable for registration.

### 5. Compulsory registration.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 4, the following classes of
dealers shall be liable for registration under this Act, irrespective of their
quantum of total turnover:-(i)every casual trader;(ii)every dealer importing
goods in the course of business from outside the territory of India to the
Union Territory for sale;(iii)every dealer exporting goods from the Union
Territory to outside the territory of India;(iv)every dealer registered or
liable to be registered under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, (Central Act 74
of 1956.);(v)every dealer residing outside the Union Territory, but carrying
on business in the Union Territory and the agent of such non-resident
dealer;(vi)every commission agent, broker, del-credere agent, auctioneer, or
any other mercantile agent, by whatever name called, who carries on the
business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing goods on behalf of any
principal;(vii)every dealer in Indian Made Foreign Liquor including beer;
and(viii)every dealer in Bullion and Specie.

### 6. Deemed registration.

(1)At the time of commencement of this Act, all dealers registered under the
Pondicherry General Sales Tax Act, 1967, (Act No. 6 of 1967.) shall be deemed
to be provisionally registered under this Act and required to submit the
prescribed application within one month from the date of commencement of this
Act for final registration.(2)Where any dealer, other than the dealer
mentioned under sub-section (1), liable to be registered under this Act, but
failed to do so, shall be deemed to have been registered by the prescribed
authority, as if an application to register had been made.

### 7. Voluntary registration.

\- A dealer who is not liable to register may also opt for registration in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.

### 8. Procedure for registration.

(1)The Commissioner shall appoint as many number of officers, as may be
required from time to time, not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Tax
Officer to discharge the function of registering authority.(2)An application
for registration shall be made to the registering authority, in such manner
and within such period as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a fee
of -(i)ten thousand rupees in respect of medium and large-scale
industries;(ii)five thousand rupees in respect of dealers in Indian Made
Foreign Liquor; and(iii)one hundred rupees in respect of other cases.(3)If the
registering authority is satisfied that the application is in order, it shall
register the applicant and issue to him a certificate in the prescribed form
specifying all his places of business.(4)A certificate issued under sub-
section (3) shall be valid for a year and shall be renewed from year to year
on payment of the fee specified in sub-section (2):Provided that when a dealer
has ceased to do business in any year, and gives notice of the same to the
prescribed authority he shall not be liable to pay any registration fee from
the commencement of the following year unless he resumes business.(5)A
registered dealer may apply to the registering authority for a copy or copies
of the registration certificate for each additional place of business, such as
branch, godown, etc. along with a fee of one hundred rupees for each copy, and
if the registering authority is satisfied that the application is in order, it
shall issue to the registered dealer a copy or copies of the registration
certificate.(6)If the registering authority is satisfied that a registration
certificate or a copy thereof is lost or accidentally destroyed, it shall, on
an application made by the registered dealer accompanied by a fee of one
hundred rupees, issue to him a duplicate of the registration certificate.(7)No
application for registration or for a copy or duplicate of the certificate and
no renewal under this section shall be refused, unless the dealer concerned
has been given an opportunity of being heard.(8)A registered dealer shall
exhibit at each place of his business the registration certificate, or a
duplicate or a copy thereof.(9)All registered dealers shall quote the
registration number in the return, challan, or other document used for the
purposes of this Act.

### 9. Security.

(1)The registering authority shall have power for good and sufficient reasons
to demand from time to time from any registered dealer or from a dealer, who
has applied for registration under this Act, security or as the case may be,
additional security for proper payment of tax and such other amount as may be
due, for an amount not exceeding one-half of the tax payable on the turnover
of the dealer for the year or as estimated by the registering authority.(2)The
whole or a part of the security furnished by a dealer may be adjusted towards
any amount due under this Act or rules framed thereunder:Provided that the
dealer shall be given an opportunity of being heard before the adjustment of
the security furnished by him.

### 10. Granting of exemption in certain cases.

(1)The Government may, from time to time, by notification, exempt from or vary
the operation of anyone or all of the provisions of this Act related to
registration in respect of specified dealers or class of dealers in any
specified goods or class of goods.(2)Any exemption under sub-section (1),
-(i)may extend to the whole of the Union Territory or to any specified area or
areas therein; and(ii)may be made subject to such restrictions and conditions
as may be specified in the notification.(3)The Government may, by
notification, cancel or vary any notification issued under sub-section (1).

### 11. Amendment of registration certificate.

(1)(a)A registered dealer shall inform the registering authority, in the
following circumstances within thirty days, if -(i)he sells or otherwise
disposes of his business or any part thereof, or(ii)there is any change in
ownership of the business including any change in the status, or(iii)the
business is discontinued or the place of business is changed, or(iv)any change
in the name, style or nature of the business, for necessary amendments to be
made in the registration certificate.(b)In case of death of the registered
dealer, his legal representative shall inform the registering authority within
thirty days for any amendments or may surrender the registration
certificate.(2)The registering authority on receipt of application for
amendment or otherwise on his own motion may amend the registration
certificate or reject the application within thirty days of the date of
receipt of such application, after making such enquiry as he deems fit and
after giving reasonable opportunity of being heard.(3)An amendment of a
certificate shall take effect from the date of the event referred to in sub-
section (1) which necessitates the amendment, whether or not the information
in that behalf is furnished within the time specified in that sub-
section:Provided that, where in consequence of a change in the ownership of a
business, the liability to pay tax of a dealer ceases, the amendment of the
certificate of registration shall take effect from the date of the submission
of application to the registering authority.(4)Any amendment of a certificate
of registration shall be without prejudice to any liability for tax or any
such amount due or leviable or for any prosecution for an offence under this
Act.(5)If a dealer fails without sufficient cause to comply with the
provisions of sub-section (1), the registering authority may, after giving the
dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, direct him to pay a penalty of
five hundred rupees in addition to the penalty chargeable on the tax due at
the rate provided under sub-section (4) of section 37 of this Act.(6)For
removal of doubt, it is hereby mentioned that where a registered
dealer,-(i)effects a change in the name of his business; or(ii)is a firm and
there is a change in the constitution of the firm without dissolution thereof;
or(iii)is a trustee of a trust and there is a change in the trustees thereof;
or(iv)is a Hindu undivided family and the business of such family is converted
into a partnership business with all or any of the co-parceners as partners
thereof ; or(v)is a firm or a company or a trust or any other organisation and
a change occurs in the management of the organisation such as any change of
directors or managing directors of the company as the case may be, then merely
by reason of the circumstances aforesaid, it shall not be necessary for the
registered dealer to apply for a fresh certificate of registration but it
shall be sufficient, on information being furnished, to get the registration
amended.

### 12. Cancellation of registration.

(1)In the case of any registered dealer, where-(i)the business has been
discontinued, transferred as a whole or otherwise disposed of, or(ii)the total
turnover for two preceding consecutive years is less than rupees ten lakhs,
or(iii)the dealer dies, and for such other good and sufficient reason, the
registering authority may, either of his own motion or on the application of
the dealer, in the case of death on the application by his legal
representative, in the prescribed manner, cancel the registration from such
date, as he considers fit having regard to the circumstances of the
case.(2)The cancellation of the registration shall not affect the liability of
the dealer to pay tax, any penalty and interest or other amount due for any
period prior to the date of cancellation whether such tax, penalty and
interest or other amount is assessed before the date of cancellation but
remains unpaid, or is assessed thereafter.(3)On cancellation of registration,
in any case, where the dealer has availed input tax credit, any taxable stock
and capital goods held shall be deemed to have been sold and tax shall be
payable on such goods at their fair market value, except where the business is
transferred as going concern to another registered dealer and in accordance
with the rules prescribed in this respect under this Act.(4)A dealer shall,
until his registration is cancelled, be liable to pay the registration fees
specified in sub-section (2) of section 8 for every year subsequent to that in
which he is registered.

### 13. Issue of permit.

(1)Every registered dealer who transacts business at places other than his
registered place or places of business or employs a travelling salesman or
representative to transact business as aforesaid shall obtain a permit issued
under this Act authorizing himself or, as the case may be, the travelling
salesman or representative so to do.(2)The entire turnover of business carried
on under the permit shall be included and accounted for by the registered
dealer in his account and returns and shall be dealt with as if it were the
turnover of business done by the registered dealer himself at the registered
place of business.(3)Every permit holder shall carry the permit on his person
and shall produce it on demand by any officer empowered by the Government in
this behalf. He shall maintain and produce on demand to any such officer a
true and correct account of all the transactions carried on under the permit
and also a stock book showing the quantities of goods entrusted to him by the
registered dealer, the quantities disposed of from day-to-day by sale or
otherwise and the balance on hand at the end of each day.(4)An application for
permit referred to in sub-section (1) shall be made to such authority, in such
manner and within such period as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by
such fee not exceeding one hundred rupees as may be prescribed.Explanation. -
A separate application with a separate fee shall be necessary for the
registered dealer and for each travelling salesman or representative employed
by him.(5)If the prescribed authority is satisfied that the application is in
order, it shall issue the permit in the form as may be prescribed.(6)A permit
issued under sub-section (5) shall be valid for a year and shall be renewed
from year to year on receipt of an application from the registered dealer
accompanied by such fee not exceeding one hundred rupees as may be
prescribed.(7)If the prescribed authority is satisfied that the permit issued
under sub-section (5) is lost or accidentally destroyed, it shall on
application by the registered dealer accompanied by a fee of one hundred
rupees, issue to him a duplicate of the permit.(8)The prescribed authority
shall cancel a permit,-(a)on requisition made in writing by the registered
dealer; and(b)on the cancellation of the certificate of registration.(9)The
prescribed authority may cancel a permit if the permit holder has contravened
any of the terms or conditions of the permit or any of the provisions of this
Act or the rules made thereunder.(10)No application for a permit or for a
duplicate thereof shall be refused and no permit shall be cancelled under
clause (b) of sub-section (8) unless the registered dealer has been given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard and no permit shall be cancelled under
sub-section (9) unless the permit holder has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.CHAPTER - III Incidence and Levy of Tax

### 14. Levy and incidence of tax.

(1)Every dealer registered or liable to be registered under this Act, (other
than a casual trader, a non-resident dealer) whose total turnover for a year
exceeds rupees ten lakhs and every casual trader or agent of a non-resident
dealer, whatever be his turnover for the year, shall pay a tax on the taxable
turnover in each tax period at the rate and at the point as specified in the
Schedules.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), every
dealer, other than,-(i)a casual trader, or(ii)a non-resident dealer or its
agent, or(iii)a dealer in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, whose total turnover for
a year exceeds rupees ten lakhs, shall not be liable to pay tax on the first
ten lakhs of rupees of his total turnover, provided that no amount by way of
tax or purporting to be by way of tax has been collected by him under this Act
in respect of that first ten lakhs of rupees.(3)The spares and accessories to
the goods specified in the Schedules shall be taxable at the same rate as
applicable to the goods whether specifically mentioned therewith or
otherwise.(4)When goods are sold in containers or packed in any packing
material, the rate of tax applicable to such containers or packing materials,
as the case may be, shall, whether the price of the containers or packing
materials is charged separately or not, be the same as those applicable to the
goods contained or packed therein and the turnover in respect of such
containers and packing materials shall be included in the turnover of such
goods.(5)When goods contained in container or packed in packing material is
exempt from tax, then the sale of such containers or packing materials shall
also be exempt from tax.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,
every dealer registered under sub-section (3) of section 7 of the Central
Sales Tax Act, 1956, (Central Act 74 of 1956.) shall, whatever be the quantum
of his turnover, pay tax, for each year, in respect of the sale of the goods
with reference to the purchase of which he has furnished a declaration under
sub-section (4) of section 8 of the said Central Act, in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.

### 15. Tax liability for works contract.

(1)Every dealer who executes any works contract shall be liable to pay tax on
the sale value of goods involved in the execution of works contract whether or
not the transfer of property on such goods occurred in the same form or in
some other form, at the rate specified in Schedules for such goods.(2)However
the dealer executing works contract may opt to pay tax by way of composition a
tax at four per cent on seventy per cent of the value of the consideration
received or receivable. Such option shall be in force for a period of not less
than three years.(3)Deduction of tax at source in works contract,
-(i)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, every person responsible
for paying any sum to any dealer for execution of works contract shall, at the
time of payment of such sum, deduct an amount calculated, at the rates as
specified under section 14 or as specified in sub-section (2) of this
section:Provided that no deduction under clause (i) shall be made where -(a)no
transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) is
involved in the execution of works contract; or(b)transfer of property in
goods (whether as goods or in some other form) is involved in the execution of
works contract in the course of inter-State trade or commerce or in the course
of import; or(c)the dealer produces a certificate in such form as may be
prescribed from the assessing authority concerned that he has no liability to
pay or has paid the tax under section 14 or under sub-section (2) of this
section, as the case may be.Explanation. - For the purpose of this
section,-(I)the term "person" shall include -(i)the Central or a State
Government or a Union Territory Administration including National Capital
Territory of Delhi;(ii)a local authority;(iii)a corporation or body
established by or under a Central or State Act or under any law passed by the
Union Territory Legislature;(iv)a company incorporated under the Companies
Act, 1956, (Central Act 1 of 1956) including a Central or State Government
undertaking;(v)a society including a co-operative society;(vi)an educational
institution; or(vii)a trust;(II)the term "civil works contract" includes civil
works of construction of new buildings, bridge, road, runway, dam or canal
including any lining, tiling, painting or decorating which is an inherent part
of the new construction and any repair, maintenance, improvement or
upgradation of such civil works by means of fixing and laying all kinds of
floor tiles, mosaic tiles, slabs, stones, marbles, glazed tiles, painting,
polishing, partition, wall panelling, interior decoration, false ceiling,
carpeting and extra fittings, or any manner of improvement on an existing
structure.(ii)Any person making such deduction shall deposit the sum so
deducted to such authority, in such manner and within such time, as may be
prescribed.(iii)Any person who makes the deduction and deposit, shall within
fifteen days of such deposit, issue to the said dealer a certificate in the
prescribed form for each deduction separately, and send a copy of the
certificate of deduction to the assessing authority, having jurisdiction over
the said dealer together with such documents, as may be prescribed.(iv)On
furnishing a certificate of deduction referred to in clause (iii), the amount
deposited under clause (ii), shall be adjusted by the assessing authority
towards tax liability of the dealer under section 14 or this section as the
case may be, and shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of the
liability of the person making deduction to the extent of the amount
deposited:Provided that the burden of proving that the tax on such works
contract has already been deposited and of establishing the exact quantum of
tax so deposited shall be on the dealer claiming the deduction.(v)Any person
who contravenes the provisions of clause (i) or clause (ii), shall pay, in
addition to the amount required to be deducted and deposited, penalty at two
per cent per month of such amount for the entire period of default.(vi)Where
the dealer proves to the satisfaction of the assessing authority that he is
not liable to pay tax under section 14 or under sub-section (2) of this
section, the assessing authority shall refund the amount deposited under
clause (ii), after adjusting the arrears of tax, if any, due from the dealer,
in such manner as may be prescribed.(vii)The tax or penalty or interest under
this section shall become due without any notice of demand on the date of
accrual for the payment by the person as provided under clauses (i) and
(ii).(viii)If any person contravenes the provisions of clause (i) or clause
(ii), the whole amount of tax payable shall be recovered from such person and
all provisions of this Act for the recovery of tax including those relating to
levy of penalty and interest shall apply, as if the person is an assessee for
the purpose of this Act.

### 16. Tax payable.

(1)Input Tax Credit (ITC)- For the purpose of calculating the net tax (VAT)
payable by a dealer for each tax period, an input tax credit shall be allowed
against the output tax subject to such conditions or restrictions or
adjustments, if any, as may be prescribed for the purposes of this section
:Provided that,-(i)for all capital goods except those provided under sub-
section(2), the input tax credit shall be allowed in three years by equal
monthly instalments commencing from the month following the commencement of
commercial production or sale of taxable goods;(ii)when the input is
transferred, either in same form or otherwise, other than by way of sale and
if such transfer is outside the Union Territory, the input tax credit shall be
allowed for the input tax paid in excess of the rate prescribed under sub-
section (1) of section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act,1956, (Central Act 74 of
1956.).(2)The input tax credit shall not be allowed,-(i)when the input is used
for manufacture of exempted goods;(ii)when the goods purchased are consumed
for own use (i.e) not connected with the business of the dealer;(iii)in
respect of following goods:-(a)Indian Made Foreign Liquor;(b)sugarcane
(sugarcane is taxable at the point of purchase and such purchase tax is not
eligible for input tax credit);(c)all kinds of pan masala with or without
tobacco;(d)narcotics;(e)civil structure and immovable goods or
properties;(f)building material used in construction activity, except when
used by a works contractor;(g)office equipment;(h)capital goods purchased
prior to the date of commencement of this Act or capital goods purchased by
dealers in IMFL, rectified spirit, narcotics, pan masala with or without
tobacco after the commencement of this Act;(i)petrol, diesel, aviation turbine
fuel and other motor spirit;(j)Molasses; and(k)Rectified spirit;(iv)for goods
purchased prior to twelve months from the date of commencement of this
Act:Provided that input tax credit will be allowed for the stock held on the
date of commencement of this Act subject to such terms and conditions as may
be prescribed:Provided further that such goods are falling within the list of
goods specified in Part-A of the Second Schedule, Part-A of the Third Schedule
or Part-A of the Fourth Schedule to this Act ;(v)for goods purchased from non-
taxable dealers;(vi)for goods purchased from a dealer paying tax on compounded
rate, as provided under sub-section (2) of section 15 and under section 19 of
this Act; and(vii)for a casual trader.(3)The input tax credit shall, at no
time, exceed the amount of tax payable at the prescribed rate in Schedule
applicable to the input.(4)Where the dealer has not adjusted the input tax
credit or has not made a claim for refund within the prescribed period from
the date of accrual of such input tax credit, such credit shall lapse to
Government.(5)Where input tax credit is availed by a dealer on a taxable
purchase and such input tax credit shall be liable for reversal in such
circumstances and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.(6)No
registered dealer shall be entitled to input tax credit in respect of-(a)goods
purchased and accounted for in business but utilized for the purpose of
providing facility to the proprietor or partner or Director including
employees and in any residential accommodation; or(b)purchase of all
automobiles including commercial vehicles, two wheelers and three wheelers and
spare parts for repair and maintenance thereof, unless the registered dealer
is in the business of dealing in such automobile or spare parts; or(c)purchase
of air-conditioning units unless the registered dealer is in the business of
dealing in such units.(7)No input tax credit shall be allowed to any
registered dealer in respect of any goods purchased by him for sale but given
away by him by way of free sample or gift or goods consumed for personal
use.(8)No input tax credit shall be available to a registered dealer for tax
paid or payable at the time of purchase of goods, if such -(i)goods are not
sold because of any theft, loss or destruction for any reason, including
natural calamity. If a dealer has already availed input tax credit against
purchase of such goods there shall be reversal of tax credit; or(ii)inputs
destroyed in fire accident or lost while in storage even before use in the
manufacture of final products; or(iii)inputs damaged in transit or destroyed
at some intermediary stage of the manufacture.(9)Calculation of taxable
turnover when sale price is inclusive of tax. - Notwithstanding the provisions
in clause (zj) of section 2, when sale price shown in a tax invoice is
inclusive of tax, the taxable turnover for that invoice may be calculated
applying the following formula, namely: -

Tax inclusive of sale proceeds x 100  
---  
(100 + Rate of Tax)  
  
### 17. Refund of tax paid in certain cases.

(1)Where a tax at the point of last purchase in the Union Territory has been
levied and collected under this Act in respect of goods liable to tax at such
point and where the said purchase ceases to be the last purchase in the Union
Territory by reason of a subsequent purchase of such goods by another dealer
in the Union Territory, the tax so levied and collected shall be refunded to
the dealer concerned in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed.(2)The Government may, by rules made under this section, provide
for refund of tax levied and collected under this Act on any taxable goods in
the series of sales or purchases.

### 18. Tax under this Act to be in addition to tax under the Central Sales
Tax Act, 1956 or any other law.

\- The provisions of this Act relating to taxation of successive sales or
purchases inside the Union Territory shall apply only to sales or purchases
inside the Union Territory (other than sales or purchases in the course of
inter-State trade or commerce) and the tax under this Act shall be levied in
addition to any tax levied under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, (Central Act
74 of 1956.) or any other law for the time being in force.

### 19. Payment of tax at compounded rates.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 14, the dealer whose sales
turnover under this Act and under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, (Central
Act 74 of 1956.) does not exceed to rupees fifty lakhs in a year may at his
option, instead of paying the tax at the rates specified in the Schedules, pay
by way of composition, tax at the rate of 0.25 per cent of his taxable
turnover:Provided that,(i)such dealer will not be eligible for input tax
credit; and(ii)the dealers in the following goods are not eligible to exercise
the option under this section,-(a)Indian Made Foreign
Liquor,(b)sugarcane,(c)all kinds of pan masala with or without
tobacco,(d)narcotics, and(e)rectified spirit.(2)Any dealer other than a casual
trader who estimates his sales turnover under this Act and under the Central
Sales Tax Act, 1956, (Central Act 74 of 1956.) for a year to be not more than
rupees fifty lakhs, may apply to the assessing authority to be permitted to
pay the tax under this section and on being so permitted, he shall pay the tax
due during the year in monthly or in prescribed instalments and for that
purpose, shall submit such returns in such manner as may be prescribed
:Provided that any dealer paying tax under any other section and desirous of
paying tax for any year under this section may, at any time, within one month
of the commencement of that year, exercise his option to pay tax under this
section and for that purpose shall submit such returns in such manner as may
be prescribed:Provided further that any dealer paying tax under this section
and desirous of paying tax under any other sections may, at any time, within
one month of the commencement of that year, exercise his option to pay tax in
accordance with that sub-section or section and for that purpose shall submit
such returns in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)The permission granted by
the assessing authority under sub-section (2) shall continue in force so long
as the dealer is eligible to be assessed under this section and has not
withdrawn his option to be so assessed:Provided that during the course of a
year if the turnover of any dealer, permitted to be assessed under this
section, exceeds rupees fifty lakhs, the permission so granted shall be deemed
to have been cancelled from the end of that tax period in which his sales
turnover under this Act and under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, (Central
Act 74 of 1956.) so exceeded.(4)The tax paid under sub-section (2) shall be
subject to such adjustment as may be prescribed.(5)A dealer who has been
permitted to pay the tax under sub-section (2) shall not collect any amount by
way of tax or purporting to be by way of tax on the sales so long as he opts
to pay the tax as provided under sub-section (1).

### 20. Exemption from tax.

\- Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed, a dealer
who deals in the goods specified in the First Schedule shall not be liable to
pay any tax under this Act in respect of such goods.

### 21. Zero rated transactions.

\- The sale of goods falling within the scope of section 3 and sub-sections
(1), (3) and (5) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, (Central Act
74 of 1956.) and clause (zh) of section 2 of this Act shall be zero rated
transactions as defined under clause (zr) of section 2;

### 22. Stages of levy of taxes in respect of imported and exported goods.

\- Where in the case of any goods tax is leviable in a series of sales or
purchases, such series shall,-(a)in the case of goods imported into the Union
Territory either from outside the territory of India or from any other State
in India, be deemed to commence at the stage of the sale or purchase effected
immediately after the import of such goods;(b)in the case of goods exported
out of the Union Territory to any place outside the territory of India or to
any other State in India, be deemed to conclude at the stage of sale or
purchase effected immediately before the export of such goods:Provided that in
the case of goods exported out of the Union Territory to any place outside the
territory of India, where the sale or purchase effected immediately before
export of such goods is, under sub-section (3) of section 5 of the Central
Sales Tax Act, 1956, (Central Act 74 of 1956.) a sale or purchase in course of
export, the series of sales or purchases of such goods shall be deemed to
conclude at the stage of the sale or purchase immediately preceding such sale
or purchase in the course of export.

### 23. Burden of proof.

(1)The burden of proving that any dealer or any of his transactions is not
liable to tax under this Act shall lie on such dealer.(2)For the purpose of
claim of input tax credit, the burden of proving such claim shall lie on such
dealer.CHAPTER - IV Assessment

### 24. Assessment of tax.

(1)Every registered dealer shall file a tax return for each tax period within
fifteen days after end of the period in such manner as may be
prescribed.(2)The returns submitted by the dealer along with tax due thereon
shall be accepted as self-assessed:Provided that the assessing authority may
select either at his discretion or as directed by the Commissioner, any dealer
for detailed assessment for a year by scrutiny of accounts and may make best
judgement assessment if so required, where-(a)a person fails to file a return
as required under sub-section (1); or(b)the assessing authority is not
satisfied with the correctness and completeness of a return filed by a person;
or(c)the Commissioner has reasonable ground to believe that a person will
become liable to pay tax under this Act but is unlikely to pay the amount
due.(3)When making any assessment under sub-section (2), the assessing
authority may also direct the dealer to pay in addition to the tax assessed, a
penalty not exceeding double the amount of tax due on the turnover that was
not disclosed by the dealer in his return or, in the case of failure to submit
a return, double the amount of tax assessed, as the case may be:Provided that
before taking action under this sub-section, the dealer shall be given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.(4)The assessing authority shall serve a
notice of assessment on completion of assessment under this section and the
dealer shall pay the balance of tax in accordance with the terms of that
notice.(5)Subject to sub-section (6) of this section, no assessment under this
section for any year shall be made after a period of three years from the end
of the year to which the return under this Act relates.(6)Where, for any
reason, the input tax credit has been availed wrongly or where any dealer
produces false invoice, vouchers, declaration certificate or any other
documents with a view to support his claim of input tax credit or refund, the
assessing authority shall, at any time, within a period of five years from the
end of the year to which the return relates, reverse input tax credit availed
and determine the tax due after making such an enquiry as it may consider
necessary:Provided that no order shall be passed under this sub-section
without giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity to show cause against such
order.

### 24A. [ Provisions relating to payment of penalty for delay in payment of
tax. [Inserted by Act No. 6 of 2009, dated 29.9.2009.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the proviso to sub-section (2) of
section 24 and in sub-sections (1) and (4) of section 37 but subject to the
other provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 24, any tax due or
payable under this Act by any dealer or any person in respect of any tax
period shall be paid in such manner and within such time as prescribed under
this Act or under the rules framed under this Act:Provided that if any such
dealer or person fails to pay such tax due or payable along with the return
within the time prescribed therefor, the dealer or person shall pay by way of
penalty, in addition to the amount due or payable, a sum equal to two percent
of such amount for each month of default or part thereof after the date
prescribed for its payment subject to the condition that the penalty in
respect of part of a month shall be computed proportionately and for this
purpose, a month shall mean a period of thirty days:Provided further that if
any default is made in payment of such tax, the whole amount outstanding on
the date of default along with the penalty prescribed in the first proviso
shall become immediately due and shall be the first charge on the properties
of the dealer or person liable to pay the tax or penalty and such tax and
penalty shall be recovered as per sub-section (3) of section 37 of this Act.]

### 25. Fair market value.

(1)Where the authority prescribed has reason to believe that any goods of a
fair market value exceeding Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) have been
sold or purchased by a dealer, to or from another dealer or person, as the
case may be, for a consideration which is less than fair market price of the
goods and that consideration for such sale or purchase as agreed to between
the parties has not been truly stated in the invoice or delivery challan or
any other document relating thereto, with the object of facilitating the
reduction or evasion of the tax payable under this Act, the authority
prescribed may, subject to the provisions of this section, initiate
proceedings for seizure and the acquisition of such goods.(2)The powers
conferred under sub-section (1) shall be exercised by the authority prescribed
in respect of goods sold or purchased which are in transit or in the
possession of the seller or buyer or his agent.(3)In any proceedings under
this section in respect of any goods which have been sold or purchased for a
consideration which is less than its fair market price, it shall be presumed,
unless the contrary is proved, that the consideration for such sale as agreed
to between the parties has not been truly stated in the invoice, or sale bill
or other documents related thereto with such object as is referred to in sub-
section (1).(4)Before initiating such proceedings, the authority prescribed
shall record his reasons for doing so and no orders shall be passed under sub-
section (1) without giving the dealer concerned an opportunity of being
heard.(5)No such proceedings shall be initiated unless the authority
prescribed has reason to believe that the fair market price of the goods
exceeds the consideration therefor by more than twenty per cent.(6)Where any
goods are acquired under this section the authority prescribed shall pay for
such acquisition compensation which shall be a sum equal to the aggregate of
the amount of sale price of the goods mentioned in the invoice or delivery
challan or any document related thereto and any expenditure incurred on
freight or any other incidental expenses incurred by the dealer concerned in
relation to those goods.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, "fair
market value" means the price that the goods would ordinarily fetch on sale in
the open market on the date of sale or despatch or transfer of such
goods.(7)If the assessing authority is satisfied that a dealer has, with a
view to evade the payment of tax, shown in his accounts, sales or purchases of
any goods, at prices which are abnormally low compared to the prevailing
market price of such goods, it may at any time within a period of five years
from the expiry of the year to which the tax relates, assess or re-assess the
dealer to the best of its judgement on the turnover of such sales or purchases
after making such enquiry as it may consider necessary and after giving the
dealer a reasonable opportunity to show cause against such assessment.

### 26. Revised return.

\- If any registered dealer discovers any mistake or error in any return
furnished by him, he may furnish a revised return subject to following
conditions:(a)A dealer shall not be eligible to furnish revised return if any
action, either has been initiated or is pending under section 24 or section 30
or under any other section of this Act.(b)If any amount is becoming due for
refund as per revised return, such revised return shall be furnished within
three months from the close of the year to which such return relates to and
shall be accompanied by an application stating the circumstances on which the
revised return is filed. The refund will be due only after confirmation by the
assessing authority by issue of a notice as may be prescribed.(c)If any amount
is due to be paid by a dealer as per revised return, such return may be
furnished at any time and will be accepted by the assessing authority, if the
return is accompanied by the proof of payment of balance tax as per the
revised return and penalty as prescribed under sub-section (4) of section 37
of this Act.

### 27. Adjustment.

\- When a dealer receives in any year any amount, due to price variation which
would have been in his turnover for any previous tax period if it had been
received by him during that period, it shall be deemed to be the turnover
during the tax period in which such amount was received and he shall, during
the tax period in which such amount was received, include such amount in the
return separately for the tax period and the assessing authority shall proceed
to assess the tax payable on such amount as his turnover of that tax period.

### 28. Assessment not voidable.

\- No assessment or other proceedings purporting to be made, issued or
executed under this Act, shall be,-(a)quashed or deemed to be void or voidable
for want of form; or(b)affected by reason of mistake, defect or omission
therein, if it is in substance and effect, in conformity with this Act or the
rules made thereunder and the person assessed, or intended to be assessed or
affected by the document is designated in it according to common
understanding.

### 29. Assessment of legal representative.

\- Where a dealer dies, his executor, administrator, or other legal
representative shall be deemed to be the dealer for the purposes of this Act
and the provisions of this Act shall apply to him in respect of the business
of the said deceased dealer, provided that in respect of any tax or fee
assessed as payable by any such dealer or any tax or fee which would have been
payable by him under this Act if he had not died, the executor, administrator
or other legal representative shall be liable only to the extent of the assets
of the deceased in his hands.

### 30. Assessment of escaped turnover.

(1)Where, for any reason, the whole or any part of turnover of business of a
dealer has escaped assessment to tax, the assessing authority may, subject to
the provisions of sub-section (3), at any time within a period of five years
from the expiry of the year to which the return under this Act relates,
determine to the best of its judgment the turnover which has escaped
assessment and assess the tax payable on such turnover after making such
enquiry as it may consider necessary and after giving the dealer a reasonable
opportunity to show cause against such assessment.(2)Where, for any reason,
the whole or any part of the turnover of business of a dealer has been
assessed at a rate lower than the rate at which it is assessable, the
assessing authority may, at any time within a period of five years from the
expiry of the year to which the return under this Act relates, re-assess the
tax due after making such enquiry as it may consider necessary and after
giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity to show cause against such re-
assessment.(3)In making an assessment under sub-section (1), the assessing
authority may, if it is satisfied that the escape from assessment is due to
non-disclosure of assessable turnover by the dealer, direct the dealer to pay,
in addition to the tax assessed under sub-section (1), a penalty of double the
amount of the tax so assessed:Provided that no penalty shall be imposed under
this section unless the dealer affected has had a reasonable opportunity of
showing cause against such imposition.(4)The powers under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) may be exercised by the assessing authority even though the
original order of assessment, if any, passed in the matter has been the
subject matter of an appeal or revision.(5)In computing the period of
limitation for assessment or re-assessment under this section, the time during
which the proceedings for assessment or re-assessment remained stayed under
the orders of a Civil Court or other authority shall be excluded.

### 31. Power of Government to notify reductions of tax.

\- The Government may, by notification, reduce the tax payable under sub-
section (1) of section 14 of this Act in respect of any goods, subject to such
restrictions and conditions as may be specified in the notification.

### 32. Liability to tax persons not observing restrictions and conditions
notified under section 31.

\- If any restriction or condition notified under section 31 is contravened or
is not observed by a dealer, the sales or purchases of such dealer may, with
effect from the commencement of the year in which such contravention or non-
observance took place, be assessed to tax or taxes under the appropriate
provisions of this Act as if the provisions of the notification under section
31 did not apply to such sales or purchases.

### 33. Payment of tax when Hindu undivided family, firm or other association
of persons is partitioned or dissolved.

(1)Where any firm is liable to pay any tax or other amount under this Act, the
firm and each of the partners of the firm shall be jointly and severally
liable for such payment.(2)Where a partner of a firm liable to pay any tax or
any amount under this Act retires, he shall, notwithstanding any contract to
the contrary, be liable to pay the tax or other amount remaining unpaid at the
time of his retirement and any tax or other amount due up to the date of
retirement, though un-assessed.

### 34. Liability of firms.

\- Where a dealer is a Hindu undivided family, firm, or other association of
persons, and such family, firm or association is partitioned, or dissolved, as
the case may be,-(a)the tax payable under this Act by such family, firm, or
association of persons for the period up to the date of such partition or
dissolution shall be assessed as if no such partition or dissolution had taken
place and all the provisions of this Act apply accordingly; and(b)every person
who was at the time of such partition, or dissolution a member or partner of
the Hindu undivided family, firm or association of persons and the legal
representative of any such person who is deceased shall, notwithstanding such
partition or dissolution, be jointly and severally liable for the payment of
the tax, penalty or other amount payable under this Act, by such family, firm
or association of persons, whether assessment is made prior to or after such
partition or dissolution.CHAPTER - V Collection and Recovery

### 35. Collection of tax by dealer.

\- No person who is not a registered dealer shall collect any amount by way of
tax under this Act; nor shall a registered dealer make any such collection
except in accordance with such conditions and restrictions, if any, as may be
prescribed.

### 36. Levy of penalty in certain cases.

\- If any person after purchasing any goods in respect of which he has made a
declaration fails without reasonable excuse to make use of the goods for the
declared purpose, the assessing authority may, after giving him a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, by order in writing impose upon him by way of
penalty, double the amount of tax payable on the turnover relating to the sale
of such goods at a rate which is equal to the rate prescribed in the Schedules
less the tax already paid on such turnover :Provided that no prosecution for
an offence under section 59 shall be instituted in respect of the same facts
on which a penalty has been imposed under this section.

### 37. Payment and recovery of tax.

(1)The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such
instalments, if any, and within such time as may be specified in the notice of
assessment, not being less than twenty-one days from the date of service of
the notice. If default is made in paying according to the notice of
assessment, the whole of the amount outstanding on date of default shall
become immediately due and shall be a first charge on the properties of the
dealer liable to pay the tax under this Act.(2)Where during the pendency of
any proceedings under this Act, or after the completion thereof, any dealer or
person creates a charge on, or parts with the possession by way of sale,
mortgage, gift, exchange, or any other mode of transfer whatsoever, of any of
his assets in favour of any other person, with the intention to defraud the
revenue, such charge or transfer shall be void as against any claim in respect
of any tax, or any other sum payable by the dealer as a result of completion
of such proceedings or otherwise:Provided that, such charge or transfer shall
not be void if it is made,-(a)for adequate consideration and without notice of
the pendency of such proceeding or as the case may be without notice of such
tax or any other sum payable by such dealer; or(b)with the previous permission
of the assessing authority.(3)Any tax assessed, any fee or any other amount
due under this Act from a dealer or person and in respect of which no appeal
or revision or such other proceedings as provided under this Act is pending
before any authority or Appellate Tribunal or High Court, may, without
prejudice to any other mode of collection be recovered, -(a)as if it were an
arrear of land revenue under the law for the time being in force in that
behalf; or(b)on application to any Judicial Magistrate, by such Judicial
Magistrate as if it were a fine imposed by him.(4)If the tax assessed under
this Act or any instalment thereof is not paid by any dealer or person within
the time specified therefor in the notice of assessment or in the order
permitting payment in instalment, the dealer or person shall pay by way of
penalty, in addition to the amount due, a sum equal to two per cent. of such
amount for each month or part thereof after the date specified for its
payment.(5)If any person collects any amount by way of tax and his turnover
for the year falls short of the taxable limit specified, the sum so collected
shall be remitted to the Government and forfeited wholly.

### 38. Recovery of penalty.

\- Any penalty payable under this Act shall be deemed to be tax under this Act
for the purposes of collection and recovery and shall be without prejudice to
the institution of any proceeding for an offence under this Act, or for the
recovery of the entire amount remaining unpaid under this Act.

### 39. Further mode of recovery.

(1)The assessing authority may at any time or from time to time, by notice in
writing (a copy of which shall be forwarded to the dealer at his last address
known to the assessing authority) require any person from whom money is due or
may become due to the dealer or any person who holds or may subsequently hold
money for or on account of the dealer to pay to the assessing authority,
either forthwith upon the money becoming due or being held at or within the
time specified in the notice (not being before the money becomes due or is
held) so much of the money as is sufficient to pay the amount due by the
dealer in respect of arrears of tax or fee or the whole of the money when it
is equal to or less than the arrears of tax or fee.(2)The assessing authority
may at any time or from time to time amend or revoke any such notice or extend
the time for making any payment in pursuance of the notice.(3)Any person
making any payment in compliance with a notice under this section shall be
deemed to have made the payment under the authority of the dealer and the
receipt of the assessing authority shall constitute good and sufficient
discharge of the liability of such person to the extent of the amount referred
to in the receipt.(4)Any person making any payment to the dealer after receipt
of the notice referred to in this section shall be personally liable to the
assessing authority to the extent of the payment made or to the extent of the
liability of the dealer for the amount due under this Act, whichever is
less.(5)Where any person to whom a notice under this section is sent objects
to it on the ground that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due by
him to the dealer, or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the
dealer, then nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to require such
person to pay the sum demanded or any part thereof to the assessing
authority.(6)Any amount which a person is required to pay to the assessing
authority or for which he is personally liable to the assessing authority
under this section shall, if it remains unpaid, be a charge on the properties
of the said person and may be recovered as if it were an arrear of land
revenue.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the amount due to a
dealer or money held for or on account of a dealer by any person shall be
computed after taking into account such claims, if any, as may have fallen due
for payment by such dealer to such person and as may be lawfully subsisting.

### 40. Provisional attachment of property to protect revenue in certain
cases.

(1)Where, during the pendency of any proceeding for the assessment of any
turnover or for the assessment or reassessment of any turnover which has
escaped assessment, an officer not below the rank of the Assistant Commercial
Tax Officer and who is empowered to perform the function of Collector under
the Pondicherry Revenue Recovery Act, 1970, (Act No. 14 of 1970.) is of the
opinion that for the purpose of protecting the interests of the revenue it is
necessary so to do, may, by order in writing, attach provisionally in the
prescribed manner any property belonging to the dealer or person :Provided
that the stock-in-trade in the case of a trader and plant and machinery and
inputs in the case of a manufacturer shall not be liable for provisional
attachment.(2)Every such provisional attachment shall cease to have effect
after the expiry of a period of six months from the date of the order made
under sub-section (1) of this section:Provided that the officer who is
exercising powers under sub-section (1) may, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, extend the aforesaid period by such further period or periods as he
thinks fit, so, however, that the total period of extension shall not in any
case exceed two years.

### 41. Recovery of tax where business of dealer is transferred.

\- Where the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay tax or other
amount is transferred, any tax or other amount payable under this Act in
respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer and
any tax or other amount due up to the date of transfer though un-assessed,
may, without prejudice to any action that may be taken for its recovery from
the transferor, be recovered from the transferee as if he was the dealer
liable to pay such tax or other amount:Provided that the recovery from the
transferee of the arrears of taxes due for the period prior to the date of the
transfer shall be limited to the value of the assets he obtained by transfer.

### 42. Special powers for recovery.

\- For the purposes of recovery of any amount due under this Act, any Joint
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes or
Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes shall have the powers of a
Collector under the Pondicherry Revenue Recovery Act, 1970, (Act No. 14 of
1970.) and shall follow for recovering such amounts the procedures laid down
in that Act.

### 43. Withholding issue of statutory forms and seizure of goods.

(1)Notwithstanding that any recovery proceeding initiated under this Act, the
Assessing Officers or any other officers authorised in this regard, shall have
power to withhold issue of statutory or other declaration forms to a dealer
from whom any tax or penalty, interest or any other amount payable under this
Act is due.(2)The Assessing Officer or any other authorised officer empowered
in this regard shall also have the power to seize and confiscate goods being
transported by a dealer from whom tax, penalty, interest or any other amount
payable under this Act is due.CHAPTER - VI Appeal and Revision

### 44. Appellate Tribunal.

(1)The Government shall appoint a Judicial Officer who is otherwise qualified
to be appointed as a District and Sessions Judge to be the Appellate Tribunal
and to exercise the functions conferred under the Act :Provided that the
Government may entrust the duties of the Appellate Tribunal to the Principal
District and Sessions Judge, Puducherry.(2)The Appellate Tribunal shall, with
the previous sanction of the Government, make, by notification, regulations
consistent with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder for
regulating the procedure and the disposal of its business.

### 45. Powers of revision of Commissioner.

(1)Any person objecting to an order passed or proceeding recorded under this
Act, for which an appeal has not been provided for in section 47 may, within a
period of thirty-days from the date on which a copy of the order or proceeding
was served on him in the manner prescribed, file an application for revision
of such order or proceeding to the Commissioner :Provided that the
Commissioner may admit an application for revision presented after the
expiration of the said period of thirty days, but within a period of ninety
days, if he is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not
presenting the application within the period of thirty days:Provided also that
no application shall be entertained under this sub-section unless it is
accompanied by a satisfactory proof of the payment of the tax admitted by the
applicant to be due or of such instalment thereof as might have become
payable, as the case may be, and fifty per cent of the difference of the tax
assessed by the assessing authority and the tax admitted by the
applicant.(2)An application for revision shall be in the prescribed form and
shall be verified in the prescribed manner.(3)On admitting an application for
revision, the Commissioner may call for and examine the record of the order or
proceeding against which the application has been preferred and may make such
inquiry or cause such enquiry to be made and, subject to the provisions of
this Act, pass such order thereon as he thinks fit within ninety days from the
date of admission of revision application.(4)Notwithstanding that an
application has been preferred under sub-section (1), the tax, fee or other
amount shall be paid in accordance with the order or proceeding against which
the application has been preferred :Provided that the Commissioner may, in his
discretion, give such directions as he thinks fit, in regard to the payment of
such tax, fee or other amount, if the applicant furnishes sufficient security
to his satisfaction in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed.(5)No
order under this section shall be passed unless both the applicant and the
authority whose order has been disputed have had a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.

### 46. Special powers of Secretary.

(1)The Secretary may, of his own motion, call for and examine an order passed
or proceeding recorded by an authority under this Act and may make such
enquiry or cause such enquiry to be made and subject to the provisions of this
Act may pass such order thereon as he thinks fit.(2)The Secretary shall not
pass any order under sub-section (1) if, -(a)the time for appeal or revision
against that order has not expired; or(b)the order has been made the subject
of an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal or of a revision in the High Court;
or(c)more than four years have expired after the passing of the order;
or(d)that is prejudicial to the revenue.(3)No order under this section shall
be passed unless the concerned person and the authority whose order is under
revision have had a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(4)In computing the
period referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (2), the time during which the
proceedings before the Secretary remained stayed under the orders of a Civil
Court or other competent authority will be excluded.

### 47. Appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.

(1)Any person objecting to an order passed by the appropriate authority under
section 17, section 24, section 25, section 26, section 27, section 29, sub-
section (1), sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) of section 30, section 32,
section 36, section 41, sub-section (4) of section 55 or sub-section (2) of
section 58 or sub-section (3) of section 80 may, within a period of thirty
days from the date on which the order was served on him in the manner
prescribed, appeal against such order to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner
having jurisdiction :Provided that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may
admit an appeal presented after the expiration of the said period of thirty
days, but within a further period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that the
appellant had sufficient cause for not presenting the appeal within the period
of thirty days:Provided also that in the case of an order under section 17,
section 24, section 25, section 26, section 27, section 29, sub-section (1),
sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) of section 30, no appeal shall be
entertained under this sub-section unless it is accompanied by satisfactory
proof of the payment of the tax admitted by the appellant to be due or of such
instalments thereof as might have become payable, as the case may be and
twelve and half per cent of the difference of the tax assessed by the
Assessing Authority and the tax admitted by the appellant:Provided further
that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may, if he thinks fit for reasons to
be recorded in writing and subject to furnishing of such security as he deems
fit, admit an appeal against such order with part payment or without any
payment of the disputed amount of tax required under this sub-section with a
view to mitigate undue hardship which is likely to be caused to the person if
the payments of such disputed amount is insisted on.(2)The appeal shall be in
the prescribed form and shall be verified in the prescribed manner.(3)In
disposing of an appeal, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may, after giving
the appellant a reasonable opportunity of being heard,(a)in the case of an
order of assessment -(i)confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment or
the penalty or both; or(ii)set aside the assessment and direct the assessing
authority to make a fresh assessment after such further inquiry as may be
directed; or(iii)pass such other orders as he may think fit; and(b)in the case
of any other order, confirm, cancel or vary such order:Provided that at the
hearing of any appeal against an order of the assessing authority such
assessing authority shall have the right to be heard either in person or by a
representative.(4)Where as a result of the appeal any change becomes necessary
in the order appealed against, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may
authorise the assessing authority to amend such order accordingly and on such
amendment being made, any amount overpaid by the appellant shall be refunded
to him without interest, or the further amount of tax, if any, due from him
shall be collected in accordance with the provisions of this Act, as the case
may be.(5)Notwithstanding that an appeal has been preferred under sub-section
(1) the tax shall be paid in accordance with the order of assessment against
which the appeal has been preferred:Provided that the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner may, in its discretion, give such directions as he thinks fit in
regard to the payment of the tax before the disposal of the appeal, if the
appellant furnishes sufficient security to his satisfaction, in such form and
in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 48. Power to transfer appeals.

(1)The Secretary may, either on his motion or on application, for reasons to
be recorded in writing, transfer an appeal pending before an Appellate
Assistant Commissioner to another Appellate Assistant Commissioner.(2)The
Secretary may, when exercising the powers under sub-section (1), direct the
stay of further proceedings before an Appellate Assistant Commissioner.(3)No
order under this section, adversely affecting a person shall be passed unless
that person has had a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 49. Appeal to the Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Any person objecting to an order passed by the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner under sub-section (3) of section 47 or an order passed under the
proviso to sub-section (4) of section 77 may, within a period of sixty days
from the date on which the order was served on him in the manner prescribed,
appeal against such order to the Appellate Tribunal :Provided that the
Appellate Tribunal may admit an appeal presented after the expiration of the
said period of sixty days, but within a further period of sixty days, if it is
satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not presenting the
appeal within the period of sixty days:Provided further that no appeal filed
by any person objecting to an order passed under sub-section (3) of section 47
shall be entertained unless it is accompanied by satisfactory proof of the
payment of tax admitted by the appellant to be due or of such instalments
thereof as might have become payable, as the case may be, and twenty-five per
cent of difference of the tax as ordered by the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner and the tax admitted by the appellant:Provided also that the
Appellate Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, for reasons to be recorded in
writing and subject to furnishing of such security as the Appellate Tribunal
may deem fit, admit an appeal against the order of the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner with part payment or without any payment of tax as ordered by the
Appellate Assistant Commissioner required under this sub-section with a view
to mitigate undue hardship which is likely to be caused to the person if the
payment of such amount is insisted on.(2)The appeal shall be in the prescribed
form and shall be verified in the prescribed manner and shall be accompanied
by such fee not exceeding one hundred rupees as may be prescribed.(3)In
disposing of an appeal, the Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the appellant
a reasonable opportunity of being heard,(a)in the case of an order of
assessment -(i)confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment or penalty or
both; or(ii)set aside the assessment and direct the assessing authority to
make a fresh assessment after such further inquiry as may be directed;
or(iii)pass such other orders as it may think fit; and(b)in the case of any
other order, confirm, cancel or vary such order:Provided that at the hearing
of any appeal against an order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, the
assessing authority shall have the right to be heard either in person or by a
representative.(4)Where as a result of the appeal any change becomes necessary
in the order appealed against, the Appellate Tribunal may authorise the
assessing authority to amend such order accordingly and on such amendment
being made, any amount overpaid by the appellant shall be refunded to him
without interest, or the further amount of tax, if any, due from him shall be
collected in accordance with provisions of this Act, as the case may
be.(5)Notwithstanding that an appeal has been preferred under sub-section (1)
the tax shall be paid in accordance with the order of assessment against which
the appeal has been preferred:Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may, in its
discretion, give such directions as it thinks fit in regard to the payment of
the tax before the disposal of the appeal, if the appellant furnishes
sufficient security to its satisfaction, in such form and in such manner as
may be prescribed:Provided further that where an order of stay is made in any
proceeding relating to an appeal filed under sub-section (1), the Appellate
Tribunal shall dispose of the appeal within a period of ninety days from the
date of such order:Provided also that if such appeal is not disposed of within
the period specified in the above proviso, the stay order shall, on the expiry
of that period, stand vacated and no further stay shall be granted.(6)(a)The
appellant or the respondent may apply for review of any order passed by the
Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (3) on the basis of the discovery of new
and important facts which after the exercise of due diligence were not within
his knowledge or could not be produced by him when the order was made:Provided
that no such application shall be preferred more than once in respect of the
same order.(b)The application for review shall be preferred in the prescribed
manner and within one year from the date on which a copy of the order to which
the application relates was served on the applicant in the manner prescribed
and where the application is preferred by any party other than a departmental
authority it shall be accompanied by such fee not exceeding one hundred rupees
as may be prescribed.(7)Except as provided in the rules made under this Act,
the Appellate Tribunal shall not have power to award costs to either of the
parties to the appeal or review.(8)Every order passed by the Appellate
Tribunal under the third proviso to sub-section (1), sub-section (3), proviso
to sub-section (5) and sub-section (6) shall be communicated in the manner
prescribed to the appellant, the respondent, the authority from whose order
the appeal was preferred, the Commissioner if he is not such authority, and
the Secretary.(9)Every order passed by the Appellate Tribunal under sub-
section (3) shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (6) and section 51
be final.

### 50. Appeal to the High Court.

(1)Any person objecting to an order passed by the Commissioner under section
45 or by the Secretary under section 46 may, within a period of sixty days
from the date on which the order was served on him in the manner prescribed,
appeal against such order to the High Court:Provided that the High Court may
admit an appeal preferred after the expiry of the aforesaid period of sixty
days, if it is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not
preferring the appeal within that period.(2)The appeal shall be in the
prescribed form and shall be verified in the prescribed manner.(3)In disposing
of an appeal, the High Court may, after giving the appellant a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, -(a)in the case of an order of
assessment-(i)confirm, reduce, enhance, or annul the assessment or penalty or
both; or(ii)set aside the assessment and direct the assessing authority to
make a fresh assessment after such further inquiry as may be directed;
or(iii)pass such other orders as it may think fit; and(b)in the case of any
other order, confirm, cancel or vary such order:Provided that at the hearing
of any appeal the respondent shall have the right to be heard either in person
or by a representative.(4)Where as a result of the appeal any change becomes
necessary in the order appealed against, the High Court may authorise the
respondent to amend such order accordingly and on such amendment being made,
any amount over paid by the appellant shall be refunded to him without
interest, or the further amount of tax, if any, due from him shall be
collected in accordance with the provisions of this Act, as the case may
be.(5)Every order passed in appeal under this section shall be
final.(6)Notwithstanding that an appeal has been preferred under sub-section
(1), the tax shall be paid in accordance with the order against which the
appeal has been preferred:Provided that the High Court may, in its discretion,
give such directions as it thinks fit in regard to the payment of the tax
before the disposal of the appeal, if the appellant furnishes sufficient
security to its satisfaction, in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed.(7)(a)The appellant or respondent may apply for review of any order
passed by the High Court under sub-section (3) on the basis of the discovery
of new and important facts which after the exercise of due diligence were not
within his knowledge or could not be produced by him when the order was
made.(b)The application for review shall be preferred within such time and in
such manner as may be prescribed, and shall, where it is preferred by the
appellant, be accompanied by a fee of one hundred rupees.

### 51. Revision by High Court.

(1)Within sixty days from the date on which a copy of the order under sub-
section (3) of section 49 is served in the manner prescribed, any person who
objects to such order or the Commissioner or any other authority as may be
prescribed may prefer a petition to the High Court on the ground that the
Appellate Tribunal has either decided erroneously or failed to decide any
question of law:Provided that the High Court may admit a petition preferred
after the period of sixty days aforesaid if it is satisfied that the
petitioner had sufficient cause for not preferring the petition within the
said period.(2)The petition shall be in the prescribed form, shall be verified
in the prescribed manner, and shall, where it is preferred by any party other
than the Commissioner or other authority prescribed in this behalf be
accompanied by a fee of one hundred rupees.(3)If the High Court, on perusing
the petition, considers that there is no sufficient ground for interfering, it
may dismiss the petition summarily:Provided that no petition shall be
dismissed unless the petitioner has had a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.(4)(a)If the High Court does not dismiss the petition summarily, it
shall, after giving both the parties to the petition a reasonable opportunity
of being heard, determine the question of law raised and either reverse,
affirm or amend the order against which the petition was preferred or remit
the matter to the Appellate Tribunal, with the opinion of the High Court on
the question of law raised or pass such order in relation to the matter as the
High Court thinks fit.(b)Where the High Court remits the matter under clause
(a) with its opinion on the question of law raised, the Appellate Tribunal
shall amend the order passed by it in conformity with such opinion.(5)Before
passing an order under sub-section (4) the High Court may, if it considers it
necessary so to do remit the petition to the Appellate Tribunal, and direct it
to return the petition with its finding on any specific question or
issue.(6)Notwithstanding that a petition has been preferred under sub-section
(1), the tax shall be paid in accordance with the order against which the
revision has been preferred:Provided that the High Court may, in its
discretion, give such direction as it thinks fit in regard to the payment of
the tax before the disposal of the petitions, if the petitioner furnishes
sufficient security to its satisfaction, in such form and in such manner as
may be prescribed.(7)If as a result of the petition any change becomes
necessary in such assessment, the High Court may direct the assessing
authority to amend the assessment accordingly, and on such amendment being
made, any amount overpaid by the assessee shall be refunded to him without
interest, or the further amount of tax due from him shall be collected in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, as the case may be.(8)(a)The
petitioner or the respondent may apply for review of any order passed by the
High Court under clause (a) of sub-section (4) on the basis of the discovery
of new and important facts which after the exercise of due diligence were not
within his knowledge or could not be produced by him when the order was
made.(b)The application for review shall be preferred within such time, and in
such manner as may be prescribed, and shall where it is preferred by any party
other than the Commissioner or the prescribed authority be accompanied by a
fee of one hundred rupees.(9)In respect of every petition or application
preferred under sub-section (1), or clause (a) of sub-section (8), the costs
shall be at the discretion of the High Court.

### 52. Petitions, applications and appeals to High Court to be heard by a
Bench of not less than two judges.

(1)Every appeal preferred to the High Court under section 50 and every
petition under section 51 shall be heard by a Bench of not less than two
judges.(2)Where an appeal is heard by a Bench of two or more judges, the
appeal shall be decided in accordance with the opinion of such judges or of
the majority (if any) of such judges.(3)Where there is no such majority, which
concurs in a judgement varying or reversing the order appealed from, such
order shall be confirmed:Provided that where the Bench hearing the appeal is
composed of two judges and judges composing the Bench differ in opinion on a
point of law, they may state the point of law upon which they differ and the
appeal shall then be heard upon that point only by one or more other judges of
the High Court and such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the
majority, if any, of the judges who have heard the appeal including those who
first heard it.CHAPTER - VII Records and Investigation

### 53. Maintenance of true and correct accounts and records by dealers.

\- Every person registered under this Act, every dealer liable to get himself
registered under this Act, and every other dealer who is required so to do by
the prescribed authority by notice served in the prescribed manner shall keep
and maintain in relation to his business true and correct accounts and such
other records as may be prescribed in any of the languages specified in the
Eighth Schedule to the Constitution, or in English, showing such particulars
as may be prescribed; and different particulars may be prescribed for
different classes of dealers.

### 54. Accounts to be audited by Chartered Accountants or Cost Accountants.

\- Every dealer whose total turnover in a year exceeds rupees fifty lakhs
shall get his accounts audited by Chartered Accountants or Cost Accountants
and shall submit a copy of the audited statement of accounts and certificate
in the manner prescribed.

### 55. Powers to order production of accounts and powers of entry,
inspection, etc.

(1)Any officer empowered by the Commissioner in this behalf may, for the
purposes of this Act, require any dealer to produce before him the accounts,
registers, records and other documents and to furnish any other information
relating to his business.(2)All accounts, registers, records and other
documents maintained by a dealer in the course of his business, the goods in
his possession and his offices, shops, godowns, vessels or vehicles shall be
open to inspection at all reasonable times by such officer:Provided that no
residential accommodation not being a place of business-cum-residence shall be
entered into and searched by such officer except on the authority of a search
warrant issued by a Judicial Magistrate having jurisdiction over the area, and
all searches under this sub-section shall, so far as may be, be made in
accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.(3)If
any such officer has reason to suspect that any dealer is attempting to evade
the payment of any tax, fee or other amount due from him under this Act, he
may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, seize such accounts, registers,
records or other documents of the dealer as he may consider necessary, and
shall give the dealer a receipt for the same. The accounts, registers, records
and documents so seized shall be retained by such officer only for so long as
may be necessary for their examination and for any inquiry or proceeding under
this Act:Provided that such accounts, registers and documents shall not be
retained for more than thirty days at a time except with the permission of the
next higher authority.(4)Any such officer shall have power to seize and
confiscate any goods which are found in any office, shops, godowns, vessel,
vehicle, or any other place of business or any building or place of the
dealer, but not accounted for by the dealer in his accounts, registers,
records and other documents, maintained in the course of his business:Provided
that before ordering the confiscation of goods under this sub-section, the
officer shall give the person affected an opportunity of being heard and make
an inquiry in the prescribed manner:Provided also that the officer ordering
the confiscation shall give the person affected option to pay in lieu of
confiscation-(a)in cases where the goods are taxable under this Act, in
addition to the tax recoverable, a sum of money not exceeding one thousand
rupees or double the amount of tax recoverable, whichever is greater; and(b)in
other cases, a sum of money not exceeding one thousand rupees.

### 56. Establishment of check-post or barrier and inspection of goods while
in transit.

\- If the Government considers that with a view to prevent or check evasion of
tax under this Act, in any place or places in the Union Territory, it is
necessary so to do, it may, by notification, direct the setting up of a check-
post or the erection of a barrier or both, at such place or places as may be
notified.

### 57. Possession and submission of certain records by owners of goods
vehicle and boats.

(1)In case of goods vehicle the owner or other person in charge of a goods
vehicle shall carry with him -(i)bill of sale or delivery note;(ii)goods
vehicle record or trip sheet; and(iii)such other documents as may be
prescribed.(2)In case of boats the owner or other person in charge of boat
shall carry with him-(i)bill of sale or delivery note;(ii)log book;
and(iii)such other documents as may be prescribed.

### 58. Powers of check-post officers.

(1)At every check-post or barrier mentioned in section 56 or at any other
place when so required by any officer empowered by the Government in this
behalf, the driver or any other person in charge of any vehicle or boat shall
stop the vehicle or boat, as the case may be, and keep it stationary as long
as may reasonably be necessary, and allow the officer-in-charge of the check-
post or barrier, or the officer empowered as aforesaid, to examine the
contents in the vehicle or boat and inspect all records relating to the goods
carried, which are in the possession of such driver, or other person in
charge, who shall, if so required, give his name and address and the name and
address of the owner of the vehicle or boat as well as those of the consignor
and the consignee of the goods.(2)The officer-in-charge of the check-post or
barrier, or the officer empowered as aforesaid shall have powers,-(a)to detain
the goods vehicles or the goods;(b)to direct the driver or any other person to
furnish any security;(c)to collect the tax payable and to levy a penalty of
three times the amount of tax payable;(d)to seize and confiscate and dispose
of any goods in accordance with the rules made under this Act, where there is
a reason to believe that the goods are not properly accounted for, in the
documents accompanying the goods or where the identity of consignor or
consignee is not clearly ascertainable from the documents accompanying the
goods.CHAPTER - VIII Offences and Penalties

### 59. Offences and penalties.

(1)Any person who,-(a)being an assessee under this Act, fails to submit a
return as required by the provisions of this Act, or the rules made
thereunder, or(b)being a person obliged to register himself as a dealer under
this Act, does not get himself registered, or(c)being a person obliged to
obtain a permit under this Act, does not obtain such permit, or(d)collects any
amount by way of tax under this Act, in contravention of the provisions of
section 35, shall on conviction by a Judicial Magistrate, not below the rank
of a Second-Class Judicial Magistrate, be liable to a fine of rupees one
thousand.(2)Any person who, -(a)wilfully submits an untrue return, or, not
being already an assessee under this Act, fails to submit a return as required
by the provisions of this Act, or the rules made thereunder, or(b)fraudulently
evades the payment of any tax assessed on him or any fee or other amount due
from him under this Act, or(c)dishonestly objects to a notice issued to him
under sub-section (1) of section 39, or(d)wilfully acts in contravention of
any of the provisions of this Act, or(e)after purchasing any goods in respect
of which he has made a declaration as prescribed but fails without reasonable
excuse to make use of goods for the declared purpose, shall on conviction by a
Judicial Magistrate of the First Class, be liable to a fine of rupees two
thousand and in the event of a second or subsequent conviction, to simple
imprisonment which may extend to six months or a fine of rupees three thousand
or both.(3)Any person who, -(a)prevents or obstructs inspection, entry, search
or seizure by an officer empowered under section 55, or(b)prevents or
obstructs inspection of any goods vehicle, or boat carrying goods, by an
officer-incharge of a check-post or barrier or any officer empowered under
section 58, shall on conviction, be liable to simple imprisonment which may
extend to six months or a fine of rupees five thousand or both.

### 60. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act or the rules made thereunder has been
committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was
committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to the company for the
conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly :Provided that, nothing contained in this sub-section
shall render any such person liable to any punishment if he proves that the
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act or the
rules made thereunder has been committed by a company, and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the
purpose of this section,-(a)"Company" means a body corporate and includes a
firm or other association of persons or body of individuals whether
incorporated or not; and(b)"Director" in relation to a firm means a partner in
the firm, and in relation to any association of persons or body of
individuals, means any member controlling the affairs thereof.

### 61. Improper use of tax payer identification number.

\- A person who knowingly uses a false tax payer identification number,
including the tax payer identification number of another person with a view to
evade or avoid or shift the liability to pay the tax in a return or other
document prescribed or used for the purposes of this Act, is guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or both.

### 62. Composition of offences.

(1)The prescribed authority may, whether on application made to it in this
behalf or otherwise, give any person who has committed or is reasonably
suspected of, having committed an offence under this Act, or any rule framed
under this Act, option to pay within a specified period by way of composition
of such offence,-(a)where the offence consists of the failure to pay, or the
evasion of, any tax recoverable under this Act, in addition to the tax so
recoverable, a sum of money not exceeding five thousand rupees or double the
amount of the tax recoverable, whichever is greater; and(b)in other cases, a
sum of money not exceeding five thousand rupees.(2)Where the prescribed
authority compounds an offence under this section, he shall serve an order on
the dealer who committed the offence specifying,-(a)the offence committed;
and(b)the sum of money to be paid and due date for payment, and such order
shall be final and not subject to any appeal.(3)On payment of such sum of
money and the tax, if any, recoverable under this Act, no prosecution for an
offence under this Act shall be instituted in respect of the same offence on
which a composition has been allowed under this section.(4)Where the
prescribed authority, on application made under sub-section (1), passes an
order refusing to allow composition under this section, it shall record in
writing the reasons therefor and furnish to the applicant on request a brief
statement of the same unless in any case the prescribed authority is of the
opinion that it will not be in the public interest to furnish such statement.

### 63. Cognizance of offences, etc.

(1)No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act or rules made
thereunder except with the previous sanction of the
Commissioner.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 all offences punishable under this Act or the rules made
thereunder shall be cognizable and bailable.

### 64. Investigation of offences.

(1)Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, the Commissioner may
authorise either generally or in respect of a particular case or class of
cases any officer or person subordinate to him to investigate all or any of
the offences punishable under this Act.(2)Every Officer or person so
authorised shall, in the conduct of such investigation, exercise the powers
conferred by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 upon an officer-in-charge of
a police station for the investigation of a cognizable offence.

### 65. Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, not to apply to
certain offences.

\- Nothing in Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 shall
apply to -(a)any offence punishable under this Act; or(b)any other offence
which under the provisions of that Code may be tried along with such offence;
and every offence referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) above may be taken
cognizance of by the Court having jurisdiction under this Act as if the
provisions of that Chapter were not enacted.

### 66. Assessment, etc., not to be questioned in prosecution.

(1)The order of assessment made under this Act shall be conclusive evidence in
any prosecution or other proceedings.(2)The validity of the assessment of any
tax, or of the levy of any fee or other amount, made under this Act, or the
liability of any person to pay any tax, fee or other amount so assessed or
levied shall not be questioned in any Criminal Court in any prosecution or
other proceeding, whether under this Act or otherwise.CHAPTER - IX
Miscellaneous

### 67. Bar of certain proceedings.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other proceeding shall lie against any officer or
servant of the Government for any act done or purporting to be done under this
Act, without the previous sanction of the Government.(2)No officer or servant
of the Government shall be liable in respect of any such act in any civil or
criminal proceedings if the act was done in good faith in the course of the
execution of duties or the discharge of functions imposed by or under this
Act.

### 68. Limitations for certain suits and prosecutions.

\- No suit shall be instituted against the Government and no suit, prosecution
or other proceeding shall be instituted against any officer or servant of the
Government in respect of any act done or purporting to be done under this Act,
unless the suit, prosecution or other proceeding is instituted within six
months from the date of the act complained of.

### 69. Bar of suits and proceedings to set aside or modify assessments except
as provided in this Act.

\- No suit or other proceedings shall, except as expressly provided by or
under this Act, be instituted in any Court to set aside or modify any
assessment made under this Act.

### 70. Appearance before any authority in proceedings.

\- Any person who is entitled to appear before any authority other than the
High Court in connection with any proceedings under this Act may be
represented before such authority-(a)by his relative or a person regularly
employed by him, if such relative or person is duly authorised by him in
writing in this behalf; or(b)by a legal practitioner; or(c)subject to such
conditions, as may be prescribed, by an accountant or a value added tax
practitioner possessing the prescribed qualifications and duly authorised by
him in writing in this behalf.

### 71. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by
this Act to be prescribed;(b)determining the total turnover of a dealer for
the purposes of this Act;(c)the assessment of tax under this Act, of business
which is discontinued or the ownership of which has changed;(d)the assessment
of tax under this Act, of any Hindu undivided family, firm or other
association of persons, where such family, firm or association is partitioned
or dissolved;(e)the assessment of tax under this Act, of business owned by
minors and other incapacitated persons or by persons residing outside the
Union Territory;(f)the assessment of a business owned by any person whose
estate or any portion of whose estate is under the control of the Court of
Wards, the Administrator-General, the Official Trustee, or any receiver or
manager appointed by or under any order of a Court;(g)the administration of
the check-post set up and barriers erected under this Act and the regulation
of the work therein;(h)the disposal of goods confiscated or acquired under
this Act and of the proceeds thereof;(i)compelling the submission of
return;(j)the form of, and the particulars to be contained in, any declaration
to be given under this Act, the authority from whom, the conditions subject to
which and the fees subject to payment of which any form of declaration
prescribed may be obtained, the manner in which the form shall be kept in
custody and records relating thereto maintained, the manner in which any such
form may be used and any such declaration may be furnished;(k)the duties and
powers of officers appointed for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this Act;(l)the circumstances in which and the extent to which, fees paid in
pursuance of section 49 may be refunded;(m)the issue of bills or cash
memoranda, the class or classes of dealers who should maintain counterfoils
for the same and the particulars to be shown in, and the manner of maintenance
of, such counterfoils and the time for which they should be preserved;(n)the
maintenance of purchase bills or accounts of purchases and sales by dealers
and the time for which they should be preserved;(o)the issue of delivery notes
in respect of goods delivered or transferred to retail dealers in pursuance of
sales effected to them, the form and manner of their issue and the time for
which they should be preserved; and(p)generally regulating the procedure to be
followed and the forms to be adopted in proceedings under this Act.(3)(a)In
making a rule under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) the Government may
provide that a person guilty of a breach thereof shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees, and where the breach is continuing
one, with further fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day
after the first during which the breach continues.(b)No Court inferior to that
of a Judicial Magistrate of the Second-Class shall inquire into or try any
offence consisting of a breach of a rule.(4)(a)All rules made under this Act
shall be published in the Official Gazette and, unless they are expressed to
come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which
they are so published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall be
published in the Official Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into
force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are
so published.(5)Any rule made or any notification issued under this Act may be
made or issued so as to be retrospective to any date not earlier than the
commencement of this Act.(6)Every rule made or notification issued under this
Act shall, as soon as may be after it is made or issued, be laid before the
Legislative Assembly, Puducherry, while it is in session for a total period of
fourteen days, which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and, if before the expiry of the session in which it is
so laid or the successive sessions aforesaid, the Legislative Assembly makes
any modification in the rule or notification or decides that any such rule or
notification should not be made or issued, that rule or notification shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect as the
case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or notification.

### 72. Power to summon witnesses and production of documents.

(1)An assessing authority or an appellate or revising authority (including the
Appellate Tribunal) or any officer of the Commercial Taxes Department not
lower in rank than an Assistant Commercial Tax Officer shall, for the purposes
of this Act, have all the powers conferred on a Court under the law relating
to civil procedure for the time being in force, for the purpose
of-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him
on oath or affirmation; and(b)compelling the production of any document.(2)Any
assessing officer or authorised officer may require any bank or clearing and
forwarding house or agency, transporting agency, shipping agency or steamer
agency or air cargo agency or courier agency to furnish such information,
document or statement for the purpose of any proceedings under this Act.

### 73. Power to rectify any error apparent on the face of record.

(1)An assessing authority or revising authority or the Appellate Tribunal may,
at any time within three years from the date of any order passed by it,
rectify any error apparent on the face of the record :Provided that no such
rectification which has the effect of enhancing an assessment or any penalty
shall be made unless such authority has given notice to the dealer and has
allowed him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(2)Where such
rectification has the effect of reducing an assessment or penalty, the
assessing authority shall make refund, if any, which may be due to the
dealer.(3)Where any such rectification has the effect of enhancing an
assessment or penalty, the assessing authority shall give the dealer a revised
notice of assessment or penalty and thereupon the provisions of this Act, and
the rules made thereunder shall apply as if such notice had been given in the
first instance.

### 74. Prohibition of disclosure of particulars produced before commercial
taxes authorities.

(1)All particulars contained in any statement made, return furnished or
accounts, registers, records or documents produced under the provisions of
this Act or in any evidence given or affidavit or deposition made, in the
course of any proceeding under this Act or in any record of any proceedings
relating to the recovery of a demand, prepared for the purposes of this Act
shall be treated as confidential and shall not be disclosed.(2)Nothing
contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to the disclosure of any such
particulars -(i)for the purpose of prosecution under the Indian Penal Code or
under this Act in respect of any such statement, return, accounts, registers,
records, documents, evidence, affidavit or deposition; or(ii)to any person
enforcing the provisions of this Act, where it is necessary to disclose the
same to him for purposes of this Act or the Indian Penal Code;(iii)occasioned
by the lawful employment under this Act of any process for the recovery of any
demand; or(iv)to a Civil Court in any suit to which the Government are party
and which relates to any matter arising out of any proceeding under this Act;
or(v)occasioned by the lawful exercise by a public servant of his powers under
the law relating to stamp duty for the time being in force to impound or
otherwise collect the stamp duty on an insufficiently stamped document;
or(vi)to an officer of -(a)the Government of India; or(b)the Government of any
State in India with which an agreement for disclosure on a reciprocal basis
has been entered into by the Government; or(vii)to an officer subordinate to
the Government other than an officer of the Commercial Taxes Department of the
Union Territory, after obtaining-(a)the permission of the Assistant
Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner or the Joint Commissioner of Commercial
Taxes as the case may be, where such particulars are to be furnished by an
officer subordinate to the Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes;
and(b)the permission of the Secretary, where such particulars are to be
furnished by the Commissioner, the Joint Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner
or by an Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes:Provided that such
particulars shall be furnished under this clause only in exceptional cases and
any officer obtaining such particulars shall keep them as confidential, use
them as confidential and use them only in the lawful exercise of the powers
conferred by or under any enactment.(3)Nothing contained in this section shall
prevent the publication of the final assessment of any party in the prescribed
manner.

### 75. Power to amend Schedules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, alter, add to, or cancel any of the
Schedules.(2)Where, a notification has been issued under sub-section (1),
there shall, unless the notification is, in the meantime, rescinded, be
introduced in the Legislative Assembly of Puducherry, as soon as may be, but
in any case during the next session of the Legislative Assembly following the
date of the issue of the notification, a Bill on behalf of the Government to
give effect to the alteration, addition or cancellation, as the case may be,
of the Schedules specified in the notification and the notification shall
cease to have effect,-(a)if a Bill as aforesaid is not introduced in the next
session of the Legislative Assembly following the date of issue of the
notification, on the date following the date on which such session comes to an
end;(b)if a Bill as aforesaid is so introduced, when such Bill,-(i)becomes law
whether with or without modifications, or(ii)is rejected by the Legislative
Assembly, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the
notification so ceases to have effect:Provided that if the notification under
sub-section (1) is issued when the Legislative Assembly is in session, every
endeavour shall be made to introduce such a Bill in the Legislative Assembly
during that session:Provided also that where for any reason a Bill as
aforesaid does not become law within six months from the date of its
introduction in the Legislative Assembly, the notification shall cease to have
effect on the expiration of the said period of six months except as respect
things done or omitted to be done before the notification so ceases to have
effect.(3)All references made in this Act to any of the Schedules shall be
construed as relating to the Schedules for the time being amended in exercise
of the powers conferred by this section.

### 76. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
remove the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the
expiry of a period of two years from the date of commencement of this
Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be, after it
is made, be laid before the Legislative Assembly of Puducherry and the
provisions of sub-sections (4) and (6) of section 71 shall apply in respect of
such order as they apply in respect of a notification issued under this Act.

### 77. Clarification and advance rulings.

(1)The Commissioner may, subject to the provisions of this Act, constitute a
Union Territory level 'Authority for Clarification and Advance Rulings'
consisting of, a Chairman in the rank of the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial
Taxes and two other members not below the rank of the Commercial Tax Officer
to clarify, in the manner prescribed, any aspect of the implementation of this
Act.(2)No application shall be entertained where the question raised in the
application,-(i)is already pending before any officer or authority of the
Department or Appellate Tribunal or any Court;(ii)relates to a transaction or
issue which is designed apparently for the avoidance of tax:Provided that no
application shall be rejected under this sub-section unless an opportunity has
been given to the applicant of being heard and where the application is
rejected, reasons for such rejections shall be recorded in the order.(3)No
officer or any other authority of the Department shall proceed to decide any
issue in respect of which an application has been made by an applicant under
this section and is pending.(4)The order of the authority shall be
binding,-(i)on the applicant who had sought clarification;(ii)in respect of
the goods or transaction in relation to which a clarification was sought;
and(iii)on all the officers other than the Commissioner, provided the dealer
does not file an appeal before the Appellate Tribunal within sixty days of the
ruling in the manner prescribed.(5)The authority for clarifications shall have
power to review, amend or revoke its rulings at any time for good and
sufficient cause by giving an opportunity to the affected parties. An order
giving effect to such review or amendment or revocation shall not be subject
to the period of limitation.(6)The Commissioner may also refer any matter for
opinion of the Authority for clarification without prejudice to his authority.

### 78. Ongoing contracts.

(1)Where a contract or an agreement was concluded between two or more parties
before the commencement of this Act and no provision for tax under this Act
was made in the contract, the selling dealer shall pay tax due on any sale
liable to tax made under such contract after the commencement of this
Act.(2)Where a contract is concluded after the commencement of this Act, and
no provision relating to tax was made in the contract, the contract price
shall be deemed to include tax due under this Act and the selling dealer shall
account for the tax due.

### 79. Powers of subordinate officer to be exercised by higher authorities.

\- The powers conferred by this Act and the rules made thereunder on any of
the officers appointed under section 3 or under any other provision of this
Act may also be exercised by any of the officers superior to the officers so
empowered, subject to any instructions issued by the Commissioner in this
regard.

### 80. Refund in certain cases.

(1)(a)A dealer effecting sales falling under sub-section (1), sub-section (3)
or sub-section (5) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, in any tax
period shall be eligible for refund of tax, if the input tax credit exceeds
the amount of tax payable subject to condition that the exports have been made
outside the territory of India. The excess of tax shall be refunded within a
period of ninety days on a claim made on a return prescribed to the authority
prescribed subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made
thereunder.(b)In all other cases, the dealer shall make a claim for refund of
the excess credit on the return in the form prescribed where such dealer has
declared an excess credit for 24 consecutive months or more or in the event of
cancellation of registration. The excess of tax shall be refunded within
ninety days of the date of receipt of the claim.(c)The claim for refund under
this section shall be made on the return in the form prescribed.(d)A dealer,
who has paid tax in excess of the amount due for a tax period, may claim a
credit in the next return.(2)Where a dealer claiming the refund is required by
the authority prescribed to provide accounts or records to substantiate the
claim but fails to do so in a manner satisfactory to the authority prescribed
within seven days of issue of notice, the time period specified in sub-section
(1) for making the refund shall not apply.(3)Where a claim of a dealer is not
accepted either in full or in part, the authority prescribed, shall send a
notice in writing, to the dealer.(4)A dealer aggrieved by the decision under
sub-section (3) may file an appeal as prescribed in this Act.(5)The tax paid
under this Act on the purchases made by specialised agencies of the United
Nations Organisation and Consulates or Embassies of any country located in the
Union Territory shall be refunded in such manner as may be prescribed.(6)Where
the authority prescribed is required to refund an amount of tax to a dealer as
a result of, -(a)a decision under section 47 of this Act; or(b)a decision of
the Appellate Tribunal under section 49 of this Act; or(c)a decision of the
High Court under sections 50 and 51 of this Act, such refund shall be made
within a period of ninety days from the date of the receipt of the
order.(7)Where such refund is not made within the stipulated time, the amount
of refund shall carry interest at the rate of one per cent per month or part
thereof on the amount of the refund for the period of delay.CHAPTER - X Repeal
and Saving

### 81. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Pondicherry General Sales Tax Act, 1967 is hereby repealed.(2)Any
action or proceedings already initiated under the repealed Act shall continue
to be valid till the final disposal.(3)The provisions of this Act shall not
affect any right, title, obligation or liability already acquired, accrued or
incurred under the repealed Act, and subject thereto, anything done or any
action taken including any appointment, notice, order, in exercise of any
power conferred by that Act, shall be valid till specifically rescinded or
withdrawn.(4)Any person liable to pay any tax, fee, penalty, interest or other
amount under the repealed Act for any period before the commencement of this
Act, shall continue to be liable and such tax, fee, penalty, interest or other
amount shall be collected under the provisions of this Act.(5)All arrears of
tax, interest, penalty, fee or other amount due at the commencement of this
Act, whether assessed or levied before such commencement or assessed or levied
after such commencement, may be recovered as if such tax, penalty, interest,
fee or other amount is assessed or levied under the provisions of this Act and
all methods of recovery including levy of interest, penalty or prosecution
provided under this Act shall apply to such arrears as if such amounts are
assessed, levied and demanded in accordance with the provisions of the
repealed Act.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and
(2),-(a)any application, appeal, revision or other proceedings made or
preferred to any officer or authority under the repealed Act and pending at
the commencement of this Act shall continue to be heard and disposed by the
said officer or authority subject to the same terms and conditions prescribed
for this purpose under the repealed Act until such officer is appointed or
such authority is constituted under this Act;(b)any application, appeal,
revision or other proceedings arising out of the repealed Act after the
commencement of this Act will also continue to be heard and disposed by the
officer appointed or authority constituted under the repealed Act subject to
the same terms and conditions prescribed for this purpose under the repealed
Act until such officer is appointed or such authority is constituted under
this Act;(c)any application, appeal, revision or other proceedings arising
under this Act will also be heard and disposed by the officer appointed or
authority constituted under the repealed Act subject to the terms and
conditions prescribed for this purpose under this Act until such officer is
appointed or such authority is constituted under this Act; and(d)as soon as
the officer appointed or the authority constituted under this Act who have
jurisdiction to entertain such application, appeal, revision or other
proceedings under this Act assumes charge, then all the applications, appeal,
revision or other proceedings pending both under the repealed Act and under
this Act shall respectively be transferred to them and disposed by them under
this Act:Provided that where such applications, appeal, revision or other
proceedings made or preferred to any officer or any authority which have
arisen under the repealed Act and transferred under this clause shall continue
to be regulated subject to the terms and conditions prescribed for this
purpose under the repealed Act until it is finally disposed.(7)Any order
delegating any power under the repealed Act or rules framed thereunder to any
person appointed, by any designation, immediately before the commencement of
this Act shall continue in force until that order is amended, varied or
rescinded.(8)Any rule, regulations, notifications or orders made or issued
under the repealed Act and continuing in force on the day immediately before
the commencement of this Act, shall continue to be in force on or after the
commencement of this Act in so far as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act.(9)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1), the industrial unit existing prior to the commencement of this Act and
are exempted from payment of tax due under the repealed Act would continue to
be exempt from payment of tax under this Act till the expiry of the period of
exemption as prescribed under that Act. Such dealer will not be eligible for
the input tax credit until the period of exemption expires. However the input
tax credit will be allowed if such dealer opts to pay tax due under this Act.
The dealer may exercise this option by submitting in writing before the
assessing officer within one month of the commencement of this Act and the
option once exercised cannot be revoked.

### 82. Repeal of Ordinance 1 of 2007.

(1)The Puducherry Value Added Tax Ordinance, 2007 is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.The First ScheduleList of Goods
Exempted[See section 20]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. |  Agricultural implements manually operated oranimal driven  
2. | Aids and implements used by handicapped persons  
3. |  All Bangles (except those made of preciousmetals)  
4. | All seeds other than oil seeds  
5. | Appalam, vadam, vathal and pappad  
6. |  Aquatic feed, poultry feed and cattle feedincluding grass, hay, straw, supplement and husk of pulses,concentrates and additives, wheat bran and deoiled cake  
7. | Atta, Maida, Suji, Besan  
8. | Betel leaves  
9. |  Books, periodicals and journals including maps,chart and globe  
10. | Bread (Branded or otherwise)  
11. | Charcoal  
12. |  Charkha, Ambar Charkha; handlooms and handloomfabrics and Gandhi Topi.  
13. | Coarse grains  
14. | Coconut fibre  
15. |  Coconut in shell and separated kernel ofcoconut other than copra  
16. | Condoms and contraceptives  
17. | Cotton and silk yarn in hank  
18. | Curd, Lussi, butter milk and separated milk  
19. | Earthen pot  
20. | Electrical energy  
21. | Firewood except casuarina and eucalyptus timber  
22. |  Fishnet, fishnet fabrics, fish seeds, fishingboats, fishing requisites and prawn / shrimp seeds  
23. | Food grains including rice and pulses  
24. | Fresh milk and pasteurized milk  
25. | Fresh plants, saplings and fresh flowers  
26. | Fresh vegetables and fruits  
27. | Garlic and ginger  
28. |  Goods taken under customs bond for re-exportafter manufacturing or otherwise  
28A. [ [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2008, dated 20.3.2008.] |  Goods which are sold by any dealer, namely:.(1) Aluminium utensils(2) Asafoetida (Hing)(3) Bagasse(4) Broomstick(5) Butter without any brand name(6) Camphor(7) Candles(8) Chillies, coriander, turmeric[***] [Omitted by '(9) Edible oil, vegetable oil, oil cake and de-oiled cake' Act No. 5 of 2012, dated 22.9.2012.](10) Energy saving choolas, solar cookers, waste conversion devices for producing energy and wind mill for generation of electricity[Omitted '(11) Footwear costing less than two hundred rupees' by Act No. 5 of 2012, dated 22.9.2012.](12) Gauze or bandage cloth(13) Goods manufactured by Blacksmiths(14) Gum Benzoin including instant sambrani in all forms, agarbathi, dhoop, dhupkathi, dhuphati[***](16) Hand-pumps and its spare parts(17) Hurricane lights, kerosene lamp, kerosene stoves, lantern, petromax, chimney lamp(18) Jamakalams(19) Kerosene sold through PDS(20) Life saving drugs as notified by the Government[***] [Omitted '(21) Masala powder' by Act No. 5 of 2012, dated 22.9.2012.](22) Panchamirtam, namakkati, vibhuthi, sandanam and prasadam.(23) Safety matches(24) Saree falls, lace, ribbon(25) Shikakai and shikakai powder(26) Software with complete Tamil or Malayalam or Telugu version(27) Tamarind , tamarind seed and powder(28) UNICEF greeting cards, diaries and calendars(29) Vermicelli(30) Writing instruments, pencils , sharpeners, pens, ballpoint pens, refills, stainless steel nibs, color pencils, blackboards, dusters, geometry boxes and dissection boxes.]  
28B. [ [Omitted by Act No. 5 of 2012, dated 22.9.2012.] | *****]  
28C. [ [Inserted by Act No. 1 of 2013, dated 14.3.2013.] | Goods which are sold by Canteen Stores Department to serving Defence Personnel and Ex-servicemen in Puducherry.]  
29. | Gur and Jaggery  
30. | Hand made safety matches  
31. |  Handicrafts produced and directly sold byself-help group  
32. |  Human blood, blood plasma including bloodcomponents  
33. | Husk including groundnut husk  
34. | Indigenous handmade musical instruments  
35. |  Items covered by Public Distribution System(except kerosene)  
36. |  Khadi garments / goods and made-ups as notifiedby Government  
37. | Kumkum, bindi, alta and sindur  
38. | Mat  
39. |  Meat, fish, prawn and other aquatic productswhen not cured or frozen; eggs and livestock  
40. | National flag  
41. |  Non-judicial stamp paper sold by GovernmentTreasuries; postal items like envelope, post card etc., sold byGovernment; rupee note, when sold to the Reserve Bank of Indiaand cheques, loose or in book form  
42. | Organic manure  
43. | Plantain leaves  
44. |  Puffed rice commonly known as "pori",flattened or beaten rice commonly known as "aval",parched rice commonly known as "Khoi", parched paddyor rice coated with sugar or gur commonly known as "Murki"  
45. | Raw wool  
46. | Salt (branded or otherwise)  
47. | Semen including frozen semen  
48. | Silk worm laying, cocoon and raw silk  
49. | Slate and slate pencils  
50. |  Sugar, textile and tobacco covered under theAdditional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act,1957 (Central Act 58 of 1957)  
51. | Tapioca  
52. | Tender green coconut  
53. | Toddy, Neera and Arrack pattai  
54. | Water other than-  
|  (i) aerated, mineral, distilled, medicinal,ionic, battery, de-mineralised
water, and  
| (ii) Water sold in sealed container  
55. |  Bio-inputs like Bio-fertilizers,micro-nutrients, plant growth promoters  
  
The Second SchedulePart-A List of Goods taxable at the rate of one percent at
Each Point of Sale[See section 14 (1)]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. |  Articles of Gold, Silver and precious metalsincluding jewellery made from gold, silver and precious metals.  
2. | Gold, silver and other precious metals.  
3. | Precious stones.  
  
PART-B List of Goods Taxable at the Rate of one percent at the Point of Last
Purchase[See section 14 (1)]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. | Old and beaten gold or silver jewellery.  
  
The Third SchedulePart - A List of Goods Taxable at the rate of Four Percent
at Each Point of Sale[See section 14 (1)]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. | Acids  
2. |  Agricultural implements not operated manuallyor not driven by animal  
3. |  All equipments for communications such as,Private Branch Exchange (P.B.X.) and Electronic PrivateAutomatic Branch Exchange (E.P.A.P.B.X) etc.  
4. |  All intangible goods like copyright, patent,replenishment license etc.  
5. |  All kinds of bricks including fly ash bricks,refractory bricks and ashphaltic roofing, earthen tiles  
6. | All metal castings  
7. |  All processed fruit, vegetables etc. includingfruit jams, jelly, pickle, fruit squash, paste, fruit drink andfruit juice (whether in sealed containers or otherwise)  
8. |  All types of yarn other than cotton and silkyarn in hank and sewing thread  
9. |  All utensils including pressure cookers/ pansexcept utensils made of precious metals  
10. | Aluminium conductor steel reinforced (A.C.S.R.)  
11. |  Aluminium, aluminium alloys, their products(including intrusions) not elsewhere mentioned in this Scheduleor in any other schedule  
12. |  Animal Hair - but to be a part of entry of skinand hide or raw wool  
13. | Arecanut powder and betelnut  
14. |  Articles made of rolled gold and imitation goldincluding imitation jewellery  
15. |  Artificial silk yarn, polyester fibre yarn andstaple fibre yarn  
16. | Bagasse  
17. | Bamboo  
18. |  Basic chromium sulphate, sodium bichromate,bleach liquid  
19. | Bearings  
20. | Bedsheet, pillow cover and other made-ups  
21. | Beedi leaves  
22. | Beltings  
23. |  Bicycles, tri-cycles, cycle rickshaws andparts, tyres and tubes thereof  
24. | Rodenticide, insecticide and weedicide  
25. | Bio-mass briquettes  
26. | Bitumen  
27. | Bone meal  
28. |  Buckets made of iron and steel, aluminium,plastic or other materials (except precious materials)  
29. | Bulk drugs  
30. | Candles  
31. | Capital goods  
32. | Castor oil  
33. |  Centrifugal, mono-bloc and submersible pumpsetsand parts thereof  
34. |  Chemical fertilizers, pesticides, weedicides,insecticides  
35. |  Clay including fire clay, fine china clay andball clay  
36. | Coal tar  
37. |  Coffee beans and seeds, coffee powder and allforms of coffee, cocoa pod, tea including green tea leaf andchicory  
38. |  Coir and coir products excluding coirmattresses  
39. | Combs  
40. | Computer stationery  
41. | Cottage cheese  
42. | Cotton and cotton waste  
43. | Crucibles  
44. | Cups and glasses of paper and plastics  
45. |  Declared goods as specified in section 14 ofthe Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act 74 of 1956)  
46. |  Drugs and medicines including vaccines,syringes and dressings, medicated ointments produced under drugslicence, light liquid paraffin of IP grade, medical equipment /devices and implants  
47. |  Dyes, that is to say; (i) Acid dyes (ii)Ahzanee dyes (iii) Bases (iv) Basic dyes (v) Direct dyes (vi)Naphthols (vii) Nylon dyes (viii) Optical whitening agents (ix)Plastic dyes (x) Reactive dyes (xi) Sulphur dyes (xii) Vat dyes(xiii) All other dyes not specified elsewhere in the schedule  
48. | Edible oils and oil cake  
49. | Electrodes  
50. |  Embroidery or zari articles, that is to say,(i) imi, (ii) zari, (iii) kasab, (iv) sama, (v) dabka, (vi)chumki, (vii) gota, (viii) sitara, (ix) naqsi, (x) kora, (xi)glass bead, (xii) badla, (xiii) glzal, (xiv) embroiderymachines, (xv) embroidery needles.  
51. |  Exercise book, graph book and laboratory notebook  
52. | Feeding bottle, nipples  
53. |  Ferrous and non-ferrous metals and alloys andtheir scraps; non-metals such as aluminium, copper, zinc andextrusions of those  
54. | Fibres of all types and fibre waste  
55. |  Coal ash, coal boiler ash, coal cinder ash,coal powder, clinker  
56. | Fly ash  
57. | Fried and roasted grams  
58. | Gypsum of all forms and description  
59. | Hand pumps and spare parts  
59(A) | Handicraft  
60. |  Havan samagri including dhoop, sambrani orlobhana commonly known as agarbatti, dhupkathi or dhuphati  
61. |  Herb, bark, dry plant, dry root, commonly knownas jari booti and dry flower  
62. | Hing (Asafoetida)  
63. | Honey  
64. | Hose pipes and fittings thereof  
65. | Hosiery goods  
66. | Ice  
67. |  Industrial cables (high voltage cables, PVC orXLPE insulated wires and cables, jelly filled cables, opticalfibre cables)  
68. |  Industrial inputs and packing materials asmentioned in the Appendix  
69. | Insulators  
70. |  IT products including computers, telephone andparts thereof, teleprinter and wireless equipment and partsthereof and cell phones, DVD and CD  
71. | Kattha  
72. |  Kerosene lamp / lantern, petromax, glasschimney  
73. | Kerosene oil sold through PDS  
74. | Khandsari  
75. | Khoya/Khoa  
76. | Knitting wool  
77. | Lac and shellac  
78. | Leaf plates and cups  
79. | Lignite  
80. |  Lime, limestone, products of lime, dolomite andother white washing materials not elsewhere mentioned in thisschedule or in any other schedule  
81. |  Linear alkyl benzene, L.A.B. Sulphonic Acid,Alfa Olefin Sulphonate  
82. | Maize starch, maize gluten, maize germ and oil  
83. |  Metals, alloys, metal powders including metalpastes of all types and grades and metal scraps other than thosefalling under declared goods  
84. | Mixed PVC stabilizer  
85. |  Moulded plastic footwear, Hawai chappals andstraps thereof  
86. |  Napa Slabs (Rough flooring stones) and shahabadstones  
87. | Newars  
88. | Nuts, bolts, screws and fasteners  
89. | Oil seeds  
90. | Old cars  
91. | Ores and minerals  
92. |  (i) Paraffin wax of all grade standards otherthan food grade standard including standard wax and match wax;(ii) Slack wax  
93. | Paper and newsprint  
94. | Paper and paper board  
95. | Pens of all kinds including refills  
96. | Pipes of all varieties including fittings  
97. | Pizza Bread  
98. |  Plastic granules, plastic powder and masterbatches  
99. | Porridge  
100. |  Printed material including diary, calendar etc.including works contract which are in the nature of printingworks  
101. | Printing ink excluding toner and cartridges  
102. | Processed meat, poultry and fish  
103. | Pulp of bamboo, wood and paper  
104. | Rail wagons, engines, coaches and parts thereof  
105. | Readymade garments  
106. | Refractory monolithic  
107. |  Renewable energy devices and spare partsincluding windmill for water pumping and generation ofelectricity  
108. | Rice bran  
109. | River sand and grit  
110. |  Rubber that is to say - (a) raw rubber, latex,dry ribbed sheet of all RMA Grades, tree lace, earth scrap,ammoniated latex, latex concentrate, centrifugal latex, drycrepe rubber, dry block rubber, crumb rubber, skimmed rubber andall other qualities and grades of latex (b) Reclaimed rubber allgrades and qualities (c) Synthetic rubber  
111. | Safety matches  
112. | Sewing machine, its parts and accessories  
113. |  Ship and other water vessels includingnon-mechanised boats used by fisherman for fishing  
114. |  Silk fabrics (subject to abolition of rentalagreement) excluding handloom silks unless covered by AED  
115. | Skimmed milk powder and UHT milk  
116. | Solvent oils other than organic solvent oil  
117. |  Spectacles, parts and components thereof,contact lens and lens cleaner  
118. |  Spices of all varieties and forms includingcumin seed, aniseed, turmeric and dry chillies  
119. | Sports goods excluding apparels and footwear  
120. | Starch  
121. | Tamarind, tamarind seed and powder  
122. | Tools  
123. | Toys excluding electronic toys  
124. |  Tractors, threshers, harvesters and attachmentsand parts thereof  
125. | Transformer  
126. | Transmission wires and towers  
127. | Umbrella except garden umbrella  
128. | Vanaspati (hydrogenated vegetable oil)  
129. |  Vegetable oil including gingili oil and branoil  
130. | Waste paper  
131. | Wet dates  
132. | Wooden crates  
133. | Writing ink  
134. |  Writing instruments, geometry boxes, colourboxes, crayons and pencil sharpeners.  
  
PART-B List of Goods Taxable at the Rate of Four Per Cent at the Point of
First Purchase[See section 14 (1)]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. | Cotton  
2. |  Groundnut not falling under Entry 45 ofPart- A of this Schedule  
  
PART-C List of Goods Taxable at the Rate of Four Per Cent at the Point of Last
Purchase[See section 14 (1) ]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. | Raw hides and skins  
2. | Wattle bark, avaram bark, konam bark, wattle extract, Quobracho and chestnut extract  
  
The Fourth SchedulePART - A List of Goods Taxable at the Rate of Twelve and
Half Per Cent at Each Point of Sale[See section 14(1) and section 14(3)]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. | Goods not specified elsewhere in any of the Schedules  
  
PART - B List of Goods Taxable at the rate of Twelve and half Per Cent at the
Point of Last Purchase[See section 14 (1) ]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. | Sugarcane  
  
The Fifth ScheduleList of Goods taxable at the Rate of Twenty per Cent at the
Point of First Sale[See section 14 (1)]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
1. | Molasses  
2. | Petrol and diesel  
3. | Rectified spirit  
  
The Sixth ScheduleList of Goods Taxable at the Rate of Thirty-Five Per Cent at
the Point of First Sale[See section 14 (1)]

Sl. No. | Description of goods  
---|---  
1. | Liquor including IMFL and imported liquor from foreign countries  
  
Appendix[See Entry No.68 under Part-A of the Third Schedule](The Industrial
Inputs and packing materials to be taxed @ 4% )

S.No. |  As provided under the Central Excise TariffAct, 1985 (Central Act 5 of 1986) | Description  
---|---|---  
Heading No. | Sub- Heading No. |   
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1. | 15.01 | ... |  Animal (including fish) fats and oils, crude,refined or purified  
2. | 15.06 | ... |  Glycerol, Crude, Glycerol Waters and Glycerollyes.  
3. | 15.07 | ... |  Vegetable waxes (other than triglycerides),beeswax, other insect waxes and spermaceti, whether or notrefined or coloured degras, residues resulting from thetreatment of fatty substances or animal or vegetable waxes  
4. | 15.08 | ... |  Animal or vegetable fats boiled, oxidized,dehydrated, sulphurised, blown, polymerized by heat in vacuum orin inert gas or otherwise chemically modified, inedible mixturesor preparations of fats and oils of this chapter  
5. | 17.02 | ... | Liquid glucose (non-medicinal)  
6. | ... | 2204.10 | Denatured ethyl alcohol of any strength  
7. | 26.02 | ... |  Manganese ores and concentrates, includingferruginous manganese ores and concentrate with a manganesecontent of 20% or more, calculated on the dry weight  
8. | 26.03 | ... | Copper ores and concentrates  
9. | 26.04 | ... | Nickel ores and concentrates  
10. | 26.05 | ... | Cobalt ores and concentrates  
11. | 26.06 | ... | Aluminium ores and concentrates  
12. | 26.07 | ... | Lead ores and concentrates  
13. | 26.08 | ... | Zinc ores and concentrates  
14. | 26.09 | ... | Tin ores and concentrates  
15. | 26.10 | ... | Chromium ores and concentrates  
16. | 26.11 | ... | Tungsten ores and concentrates  
17. | 26.12 | ... | Uranium or Thorium ores and concentrates  
18. | 26.13 | ... | Molybdenum ores and concentrates  
19. | 26.14 | ... | Titanium ores and concentrates  
20. | 26.15 | ... |  Niobium, Tantalum, Vanadium or Zirconium oresand concentrates  
21. | 26.16 | ... | Precious metal ores and concentrates  
22. | 26.17 | ... | Other ores and concentrates  
23. | 26.18 | ... |  Granulated slag (slag sand) from themanufacture of iron or steel  
24. | ... | 2707.10 | -Benzole  
25. | ... | 2707.20 | -Toluole  
26. | ... | 2707.30 | Xylole  
27. | ... | 2707.40 | Naphthalene  
28. | ... | 2707.50 | Phenols  
29. | ... | 2707.60 | Creosote oils  
30. | ... | 2710.90 | Normal Paraffin  
31. | ... | 2711.12 | Butadine  
32. | ... | 2714.10 | Bitumen  
33. | 28.01 | ... | Fluorine, Chlorine, Bromine and Iodine  
34. | 28.02 | ... |  Sulphur sublimed or precipitated colloidalsulphur  
35. | 28.03 | ... |  Carbon (carbon blacks and other forms of carbonnot elsewhere specified or included)  
36. | 28.04 | ... | Hydrogen, rare gases and other non-metals  
37. | 28.05 | ... |  Alkali or alkaline-earth metals, rare earthmetals, scandium and yitrium whether or not intermixed or interalloyed mercury  
38. | 28.06 | ... |  Hydrogen chloride (hydrochloric acid)chlorosulphuric acid  
39. | 28.07 | ... | Sulphuric acid and anhydrides thereof, Olcum  
40. | 28.08 | ... | Nitric acid, sulphonitric acids  
41. | 28.09 | ... |  Diphosphorus, pentaoxide, phosphoric acid andpolyphosphoric acids  
42. | 28.10 | ... | Oxides or boron; boric acids  
43. | 28.12 | ... | Halides and halide oxides of non-metals  
44. | 28.13 | ... |  Sulphides of non-metals; commercial phosphorustrisulphide  
45. | 28.14 | ... | Ammonia, anhydrous or in aqueous solution  
46. | 28.15 | ... |  Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda), potassiumhydroxides (caustic potash); peroxides of sodium or potassium  
47. | 28.16 | ... |  Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium; oxides,hydroxides and peroxides of strontium or barium  
48. | ... | 2818.10 | Alumium hydroxides  
49. | 28.19 | ... | Chromium oxides and hydroxides  
50. | 28.20 | ... | Manganese oxides  
51. | ... | 2821.10 | Iron oxides and hydroxides  
52. | 28.22 | ... |  Cobalt oxides and hydroxides, commercial cobaltoxides  
53. | 28.23 | ... | Titanium oxide  
54. | 28.25 | ... |  Hydrazine and hydroxylamine and their Inorganicsalts, other Inorganic bases, other metal oxides, hydroxides andperoxides  
55. | 28.26 | ... |  Fluorides, fluorosilicates, fluoro aluminatesand other complex fluorine salts  
56. | 28.27 | ... |  Chlorides, chloride oxides and chloridehydroxides, bromides and bromide oxides; Iodides and Iodideoxides  
57. | 28.29 | ... |  Chlorates and Perchlorates; bromates andPerbromates, Iodates and periodates  
58. | 28.30 | ... | Sulphides, Polysulphides  
59. | 28.31 | ... | Dithionites and sulphoxylates  
60. | 28.32 | ... | Sulphites, Thiosulphites  
61. | ... | 2833.10 | Copper sulphate  
62. | 28.34 | ... | Nitrites, nitrates  
63. | 28.35 | ... |  Phosphinates (hypophosphites), phosphonates(Phosphites); phosphates and polyphosphates  
64. | 28.36 | ... |  Carbonates, peroxocarbonates(percarbonates),commercial ammonium carbonates containing ammonium carbanate  
65. | 28.37 | ... | Cyanides, cyanide oxides and complex cyanides  
66. | 28.38 | ... | Fulminates, cyanates and thiocynates  
67. | 28.40 | ... | Borates, peroxoborates (perborates)  
68. | ... | 2841.10 | Sodium dichromate  
69. | ... | 2841.20 | Potassium dichromate  
70. | 28.44 | ... |  Radioactive chemical elements and radioactiveisotopes (including the fissile chemical elements and isotopes)and their compounds; mixtures and residues containing theseproducts  
71. | 28.45 | ... |  Isotopes other than those of heading No.28.44compounds, inorganic or organic of such isotopes, whether or notchemically defined  
72. | 28.46 | ... |  Compounds, inorganic or organic of rare earthmetals of yitrium or of scandium or of mixtures of these metals  
73. | 28.48 | ... |  Phosphides, whether or not chemically defined,excluding ferrophosphorus  
74. | ... | 2849.10 | Calcium carbide  
75. | ... | 2901.90 | Ethylene, Propylene  
76. | 29.02 | ... | Cyclic Hydrocarbons  
77. | 29.03 | ... | Halogenated derivatives of Hydrocarbons  
78. | 29.04 | ... |  Sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivativesof hydrocarbons, whether or not halogenated  
79. | ... | 2905.10 | Methanol  
80. | ... | 2905.90 |  Di-Ethylene Glycol, Mono Ethylene Glycol,Tri-Ethylene Glycol, Ethylene Glycol, Heavy Ethylene Glycol  
81. | 29.06 | ... |  Cyclic alcohols and their halogenated,sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives  
82. | 29.08 | ... |  Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated ornitrosated derivatives of phenols or phenol alcohols  
83. | 29.09 | ... |  Ethers, ether-alcohols peroxides, etherperoxides, ketone peroxides (whether or not chemically defined)and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosatedderivatives  
84. | 29.10 | ... |  Epoxides, Epoxyalcohols, epoxyphenols andepoxythers, with a three membered ring and their halogenated,sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives  
85. | ... | 2910.00 | Ethylene Oxide  
86. | 29.11 | ... |  Acetals and hemiacetals, whether or not withother oxygen function and their halogenated, sulphonated,nitrated or nitrosated derivatives  
87. | 29.12 | ... |  Aldehydes, whether or not with other oxygenfunction; cyclic polymers of aldehydes; paraformaldehyde  
88. | 29.13 | ... |  Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated ornitrosated derivatives of products of heading No. 29.12  
89. | 29.15 | ... |  Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids andtheir anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids, theirhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives  
90. | 29.16 | ... |  Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids,cyclic monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides,peroxides and peroxyacids, their halogenated, sulphonated,nitrated or nitrosated derivatives  
91. | 29.17 | ... |  Polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides,halides, peroxides and peroxyacids, their halogenated,sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives  
92. | 29.18 | ... |  Carboxylic acids with additional oxygenfunction and their anhydrides, halides, peroxides andperoxyacids, their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated ornitrosated derivatives  
93. | 29.19 | ... |  Phosphoric esters and their salts, includinglactophosphates, their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated ornitrosated derivatives  
94. | 29.20 | ... |  Esters of other inorganic acids (excludingesters of hydrogen halides) and their salts, their halogenated,sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives  
95. | 29.21 | ... | Amine-function compounds  
96. | 29.22 | ... | Oxygen-function amino-compounds  
97. | 29.23 | ... |  Quaternery ammonium salts and hydroxides;lecithins and other phosphominolipids.  
98. | 29.24 | ... |  Carboxyamide-function compounds; amide-functioncompounds of carbonic acid  
99. | 29.25 | ... |  Carboxyamide-function compounds (includingsaccharin and its salts) and imine-function compounds  
100. | 29.26 | ... | Nitrile-function compounds  
101. | 29.27 | ... | Diazo, Azo-or-azoxy compounds  
102. | 29.28 | ... |  Organic derivatives of hydrazine or ofhydroxylamine  
103. | 29.30 | ... | Organo-sulphur compounds.  
104. | 29.31 | ... |  Ethylene Diamine Tetra Acetic Acid, NitrilloTriacetric Acid and their derivatives  
105. | 29.32 | ... |  Heterocyclic compounds with oxygenheteroatom(s) only.  
106. | 29.33 | ... |  Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogenheteroatom(s) only  
107. | 29.34 | ... |  Nucleic acids and their salts; otherheterocyclic compounds  
108. | 29.35 | ... | Sulphonamides  
109. | 29.38 | ... |  Glycosides, natural or reproduced by synthesisand their salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives  
110. | 29.39 | ... |  Vegetable alkaloids, natural or reproduced bysynthesis, and their salts, ethers, esters and otherderivatives.  
111. | 29.42 | ... |  Ethylene Diamine Tetra Acetic Acid, NitriloTriacetric Acid and their derivatives.  
112. | 32.01 | ... |  Tanning extracts of vegetable origin; tannisand their salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives  
113. | 32.02 | ... |  Synthetic organic tanning substances; inorganictanning substances; tanning preparations, whether or notcontaining natural tanning substances, enzymatic preparationsfor pre-tanning.  
114. | 32.03 | ... |  Colouring matter of vegetable or animal origin(including dyeing extracts but excluding animal black), whetheror not chemically defined; preparations based on colouringmatter or vegetable or animal origin as specified in Note 2 tothis Chapter.  
115. | 32.04 | ... |  Synthetic organic colouring matter whether ornot chemically defined; preparations based on synthetic organiccolouring matter as specified in Note 2 to this Chapter;synthetic organic products of a kind used as fluorescentbrightening agents or as luminophores, whether or not chemicallydefined.  
116. | 32.05 | ... |  Colour lakes; preparations based on colourlakes, as specified in Note 2 to this Chapter  
117. | ... |  3207.10 Glass frit and other glass in the formof powder, granules, or flakes. |   
118. | ... | 3207.90 | Others  
119. | 32.11 | ... | Prepared driers  
120. | ... | 3215.90 |  Printing ink whether or not concentrated orsolid  
121. | 35.01 | ... |  Casein, caseinates and other caseinderivatives, casein glues  
122. | 35.07 | ... |  Enzymes; prepared enzymes not elsewherespecified or included  
123. | 38.01 | ... |  Artificial graphite; colloidal orsemi-colloidal graphite; preparations based on graphite or othercarbon in the form of pastes, blocks, pastes or othersemi-manufacturers  
124. | 38.02 | ... |  Activated carbon, activated natural mineralproducts, animal black, including spent animal black  
125. | 38.04 | ... |  Residual lyes from the manufacture of woodpulp, whether or not concentrated, desugared or chemicallytreated, including lignin sulphonates, but excluding tall oil ofheading No.38.03  
126. | 38.06 | ... |  Rosin and resin acids, and derivatives thereof,rosin spirit and rosin oils, run gums  
127. | 38.07 | ... |  Wood tar, wood tar oils, wood creosol, woodnaptha, vegetable pitch, brewers pitch and similar preparationsbased on rosin, resin acids or on vegetable pitch  
128. | 38.09 | ... |  Finishing agents, dye carriers to acceleratethe dyeing or fixing of dye-stuffs and other products andpreparations (for example, dressings and mordants) of a kindused in textile, paper, leather or like industries, notelsewhere specified or included  
129. | 38.12 | ... |  Prepared rubber accelerators; compoundplasticisers for rubber or plastics, not elsewhere specified orincluded anti-oxidising preparations and other compoundstabilizers for rubber or plastics  
130. | 38.14 | ... |  Reducers and blanket wash/roller wash used inthe printing industry  
131. | 38.15 | ... |  Reaction initiaters, reaction accelerators andcatalytic preparations, not elsewhere specified or included  
132. | 38.17 | ... |  Mixed alkybenzenes and mixed alkynapthalenes,other than those of heading No.27.07 or 29.02  
133. | 38.18 | ... |  Chemical elements doped for use in electronics,in the form of discs, wafers or similar forms; chemicalcompounds doped for use in electronics  
134. | 38.23 | ... |  Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids, acidoils from refining, industrial fatty alcohols  
135. | ... | 3824.90 | Retarders used in the printing industry  
136. | ... | 3901.10 | LLDPE/LDPE  
137. | ... | 3901.20 | HDPE  
138. | 39.02 | ... |  Polymers of propylene or of other olefins, inprimary forms  
139. | ... | 3904.10 | PVC  
140. | 39.06 | ... | Acrylic polymers in primary forms  
141. | 39.07 | ... |  Polyacitals, other polyethers and epoxideresins, in primary forms, polycarbonates, alkyd resins,polyalyesters and other polyesters, in primary forms  
142. | ... | 3907.60 Polyethylene Terephthalate Chips |   
143. | 39.08 | ... | Polyamides in primary forms  
144. | 39.09 | ... |  Amino-resins polyphenylene oxide, phenolicresins and polyurethanes in primary forms  
145. | 39.10 | ... | Silicones in primary forms  
146. | 39.11 | ... |  Petroleum resins, coumarone-indene resins,polyterpenes polysulphides, polysulphones and other productsspecified in Note 3 to this Chapter, not elsewhere specified orincluded in primary forms  
147. | 39.12 | ... |  Cellulose and its chemical derivatives, andcellulose ethers, not elsewhere specified or included in primaryforms  
148. | 39.13 | ... |  Natural polymers (for example, alginic acid)and modified natural polymers (for example, hardened proteins,chemical derivatives of natural rubber), not elsewhere specifiedor included, in primary forms.  
149. | 39.14 | ... |  Ion-exchangers based on polymers of headingNos.39.01 to 49.13 in primary forms.  
150. | 39.19 | ... |  Self-adhesive plates, sheets, film foil, tape,strip of plastic whether or not in rolls.  
151. | ... | 3920.32 | Flexible plain films  
152. | 39.23 | ... |  Articles for the packing of goods, of plastics;namely, boxes, cases, crates, containers, carboys, bottles,jerry cans and their stoppers, lids, caps of plastics (but notincluding insulated ware)  
153. | 40.01 | ... |  Natural Rubber, balata, gutta percha, Guayule,chicle and similar natural gums, in primary forms or in plates,sheets or strips.  
154. | 40.02 | ... |  Synthetic rubber and factice derived from oilsin primary forms or plates sheets or strip; mixtures of anyproduct of heading No.40.01 with any product of this heading, inprimary forms or in plates, sheets or strip.  
155. | 40.03 | ... |  Reclaimed rubber in primary forms or in plates,sheets or strip.  
156. | 40.05 | ... |  Compounded rubber unvulcanised in primary formsor in plates, sheets or strip, other than the forms and articlesof unvulcanised rubber described in heading No.40.06  
157. | 47.01 | ... |  Mechanical wood pulp, chemical wood pulp,semichemical wood pulp and pulps of other fibrous cellulosicmaterials  
158. | 48.19 | ... |  Cartons (including flattened or folded cartons)boxes (including flattened or folded boxes) cases, bags andother packing containers of paper board whether in assembled orunassembled condition.  
159. | 48.21 | ... |  Paper printed labels and paperboard printedlabels.  
160. | 48.23 | ... |  Paper, self-adhesive tape and printed wrappersused for packing  
161. | ... | 5402.42 |  Partially Oriented Yarn, polyesters texturisedyarn and waste thereof  
162. | ... | 5503.20 |  Polyester staple fibre and polyster staplesfibre fill  
163. | ... | 5503.20 | Polyester staple fiber waste  
164. | ... | 6304.10 |  Sacks and bags of a kind used for the packingof goods of jute or of other textile based fibres of headingNo.53.03  
165. | 70.07 | ... |  Carboys, bottles, jars, phials of glass of akind used for the packing of goods, stoppers, lids and otherclosures of glass.  
166. | 83.09 | ... |  Stoppers, caps and lids (including crown corks,screw caps and pouring stoppers) capsules for bottles, threadedbungs, bung covers, seals and other packing accessories of basemetal.

