## Union of India - Act

## The Tobacco Cess Act, 1975

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Tobacco Cess Act, 1975

## Act 26 of 1975

  * Published on 12 May 1975 
  * Commenced on 12 May 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 May 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tobacco Cess Act, 1975ACT NO. 26 OF 1975

### 1259.

[12th May, 1975]An Act to provide for the levy and collection, by way of cess,
of a duty of excise on virginia tobacco and a duty of customs on tobacco, for
the development of tobacco industry and for matters connected therewith.BE it
enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tobacco Cess Act, 1975.(2)It extends to the
whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint and different
dates may be appointed for different provisions.

1-1-1976; Vide Notification No. S.O. 5419, dt. 17-12-1975 (except see. 3)  
---  
  
### 2. Definition.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)[ "auction platform"
means an auction platform registered with the Board in accordance with the
rules made under the Tobacco Board Act, 1975 or established by the Board under
that Act:] [Inserted by Act 36 of 1978, s-7.](b)[ "Board" means the Tobacco
Board established under section 4 of the Tobacco Board Act, 1975; [Original
clause (a) and (b) re-lettered as (b) and (c). Original clause (c) omitted by
Act 36 of 1978, s-7 . ](c)[ "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under
this Act;](2)All words and expressions used in this Act and not defined, but
defined in the Tobacco Board Act, 1975 (4 of 1975.), shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Duties of excise on virginia tobacco.

(1)There shall be levied and collected, by way of a cess for the purposes of
the Tobacco Board Act, 1975 (4 of 1975.), a duty of excise at the rate of one
paisa per kilogram on virginia tobacco which is produced in India and sold at
a [an auction platform] [ Substituted for ].(2)The duty of excise levied under
sub-section (1) shall be in addition to any cess or duty leviable on virginia
tobacco under any other law for the time being in force.(3)The duty of excise
payable under sub-section (1) in respect of any virginia tobacco sold at, [an
auction platform] [ Substituted for ] shall be payable by the seller thereof
to the person or authority prescribed in respect of such platform.(4)The
person or authority prescribed in respect of [an auction platform] [
Substituted for ] shall collect the duty of excise payable on virginia tobacco
sold at such platform and pay the amount so collected to the Central
Government in such manner and within such time as may be prescribed.(5)If any
duty of excise payable under this section, or if any amount collected under
this section by way of such duty, has not been paid to the Central Government
within the period prescribed under sub-section (4), the Central Government may
recover such duty or amount in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.

### 4. Duties of customs on tobacco.

(1)There shall be levied and collected, by way of a cess for the purposes of
the Tobacco Board Act, 1975 (4 of 1975.), a duty of customs at such rate not
exceeding one per cent. ad valorem as the Central Government may specify, by
notification in the Official Gazette, on all tobacco, which is
exported.Explanation.-"Exported" means taken out of India by land, sea or
air.(2)The duties of customs levied under sub-section (1) shall be in addition
to any cess or duty leviable on tobacco under any other law for the time being
in force.(3)The provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962.) and the
rules and regulations made thereunder, including those relating to refunds and
exemptions from duty, shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to, the levy
and collection of the duty of customs leviable under sub-section (1) as they
apply in relation to the levy and collection of duties of customs under that
Act or those rules and regulations.

### 5. Crediting proceeds of duties to Consolidated Fund of India.

The proceeds of the duties, of excise and customs levied under sections 3 and
4 respectively shall first be credited to the Consolidated Fund of India and
the Central Government may, if Parliament, by appropriation made by law in
this behalf, so provides, pay to the Board, from time to time, from out of
such proceeds, after deducting the expenses on collection, such sums of money
as it may think fit for being utilised for the purposes of the Tobacco Board
Act, 1975 (4 of 1975).

### 6. Penalty for evasion of duty of excise payable under section3.

Whoever wilfully or intentionally evades or attempts to evade the payment of
any duty of excise payable by him under section 3, or the payment of any
amount collected by way of duty under that section shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 7. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.-For the purposes
of this section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or
other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm,
means a partner in the firm.

### 11. Power of Central Government to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the assessment and collection
of the duties of excise levied under section 3 and the functions and powers
which may be exercised and the duties which may be discharged in connection
therewith by the Board or any officers or other employees of the Board;(b)the
persons or authorities who may collect duties of excise under sub-sections (3)
and (4) of section 3, the time within which and the manner in which the
proceeds of such duties of excise shall be paid to the Central
Government;(c)the returns which the persons or authorities referred to in
clause (b) shall furnish to the Central Government and the form and the manner
in which and the intervals at which such returns shall be furnished;(d)any
other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed by, or provided for, by
rules, under this Act.(3)In making any rule under this section, the Central
Government may direct that a contravention thereof shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both, and in the case of a continuing
contravention, with an additional fine which may extend to fifty rupees for
every day during which such contravention continues after conviction for the
first such contravention.(4)Every rule made under this section shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it
is in session, for a total period of thirty days, which may be comprised in
one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry
of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule, or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

