## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Rules, 2001

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Rules, 2001

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-ACQUISITION-OF-LAND-FOR-INDUSTRIAL-PURPOSES-RULES-2001
of 2001

  * Published on 1 September 2001 
  * Commenced on 1 September 2001 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 September 2001.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Rules,
2001Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 366, Revenue (LAI), dated the
1st September 2001 - S.R.O. A/ 62 (a)/ 2001In exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (1) of section 25 of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for
Industrial Purposes Act 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1999), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of land for Industrial
Purposes Rules, 2001.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(i)(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Acquisition of land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu
Act 10 of 1999).(b)"Form" means a form appended to these rules;(c)"section"
means a section of the Act;(ii)The words or expressions used, but not defined
in these rules shall have the same meaning, respectively, assigned in the Act.

### 3. Issue of show cause notice by the Government.

\- The show cause notice specified in sub-section (2) of section 3 shall be in
Form A.

### 4. Publication of public notice.

\- The Government shall cause a public notice of the substance of the show
cause notice issued under sub-section (2) of section 3 in Form B. The notice
shall be published at convenient places in the locality and copies thereof
affixed in the main offices, of the Collector and the Tahsildar.

### 5. Statement of objections.

\- The statement of objections should mention how the objector is interested
in the land.

### 6. Hearing of objections by the Government.

(a)If statement of objections filed by a person who has no interest in the
Land, it shall be summarily rejected.(b)If any objections are received from a
person interested in the land, within the time prescribed in rule 3 or 4, the
Government shall fix a date for hearing the objections and give notice thereof
to the objector or as well as to the Government or company requiring the land.
Copies of the objections shall also be forwarded to such department or company
and the Department or company may file on or before the date fixed by the
Government, a statement by way of answer to the objections and may also depute
a representative to attend the enquiry.(c)On the date fixed for enquiry or any
other date to which the enquiry may be adjourned by- the Government, the
Government shall hear the objector, or a person authorized by him in this
behalf, or his pleader and the representation if any, of the department or
company and record any evidence that may be produced by both in support of the
objections and in support of the need for acquiring the land.

### 7. Publication of notice.

\- On consideration of the objections and reports thereon, if the Government
decide that the land should be acquired, the Government shall publish a notice
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette as required under sub-section (1) of
section 3 in Form C.

### 8. Withdrawal of land from acquisition.

\- The notice for withdrawal of land from acquisition under the first
provision to sub-section (1) of section 4, the possession of which was not
actually taken by, or on behalf of, the Government shall be in Form D.

### 9. Surrender or deliver possession of land.

\- The order of the Government to surrender or deliver possession of the land
as required under sub-section (2) of section 4 shall be on the line specified
in Form E.

### 10. Determination of amount by agreement.

\- The agreement to be executed by the Government and the person to whom the
amount has to be paid under subsection (2) of section 7 shall be in Form F.

### 11. Proceedings of the Collector determining the amount.

\- The proceedings of the Collector determining the amount under section
7shall be on the lines specified in Form G. The Collector need not fill up
this Form in his own hand, but he shall sign it. A copy of the proceedings
shall be furnished free of charge to the person interested.

### 12. [ Publication of notice under section 23 (2) of the Act. [Inserted by
Notification No. SRO A-50 (a)/ 2002, dated the 3rd October 2002.]

\- The notice under sub-section (2) of section 23 of the Act shall be
published in Form H.]Form A[See Rule 3]Show Cause Notice under Sub-Section (2)
of Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes
Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1999)Whereas, it appears to the Government of
Tamil Nadu that the land/ lands specified in the Schedule below and situated
in the .......... village ............. Taluk .............. District is/ are
needed for an industrial purpose to wit for Notice to that effect is hereby
given to all whom it may concern in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (2) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial
Purposes Act, 1997 to show cause within thirty days from the date of giving
public notice why the land/ lands should not be acquired.

Survey No. | Description | Extent required/ acquired | Owner/ person interested  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
Form B[See Rule 4]Public Notice under Sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of the
Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu
Act 10 of 1999)Under sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of
1999), notice is hereby given that the land/ lands specified in the Schedule
and situated in the village of.....in the taluk of........in the district
of........ is/ are required for industrial purposes, to wit, for...... All
persons interested in the land/ lands is/ are, accordingly, required to lodge
before the Department within thirty days from the date of publication of this
notice a statement in writing of their obiections, if any, to the acquisition
of the said lands.Any objection/ statement which is received after the date or
which does not clearly explain the nature of the sender's interest in the land
is liable to be summarily rejected.Objections received within the due date, if
any, will be enquired into on ........at..........when objectors will be at
liberty to appear in person or by a person or persons authorised by him or
them in this behalf by a pleader and to adduce any oral or documentary
evidence in support of their objections.The Schedule

Survey No. | Description | Extent required/ acquired | Owner/ person interested  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
  
Form C(See Rule 7)Form of Notice under Sub-Section (i) of Section 3 of the
Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu
Act 10 of 1999)The Government of Tamil Nadu having been satisfied that the
land/ lands specified in the Schedule below to be acquired for industrial
purpose to wit to......and it having already been decided that the amount of
compensation to be awarded for the land/ lands is to be paid out of the lands
controlled or managed by...........The following notice is issued under sub-
section (1) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of for Industrial
Purposes Act, 1997.NoticeUnder sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of
1999), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby acquires the land/ lands specified in
the Schedule below measuring.............hectare/ acres to the same, a little
more or less needed for industrial purpose wit, for.........The plan of the
land/ lands is/ are kept in the office of the..........may be inspected on any
day during office hours.The Schedule

Survey No. | Description | Extent required/ acquired | Owner/ person interested  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
  
Form D(See Rule 8)Notice under Sub-Section (1) of Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu
Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu Act 10 of
1999)Under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land
for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1999), Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby withdraws from acquisition the land / lands specified in the
Schedule below in respect of which notice under sub-section (1) of section 3
was published by the Department at page Part Section of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, dated the....... the actual possession of which was not
taken by, or on behalf of, the Government.The Schedule

Survey No. | Description | Extent required/ acquired | Owner/ person interested  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
  
Form E(See Rule 9)Government of Tamil Nadu, DepartmentUnder sub-section (2) of
section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act,
1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1999) Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby directs that
the person who is in possession of ........, to surrender or deliver
possession thereof to the Collector within thirty days of the service of this
order, the followings land/ lands specified in the Schedule below in respect
of which notice under sub-section (1) of section 3 was published by the
......... Department at page ........... of Part Section ............... of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated theThe Schedule

Survey No. | Description | Extent required/ acquired | Owner/ person interested  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
Form F[See Rule 10]Agreement to be Executed when Land is Acquired for
Industrial Purposes under Sub-Section (2) of Section 7 of the Tamil Nadu
Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu Act 10 of
1999)An agreement made this .......... day of ....... 2001 of between the
Governor of Tamil Nadu acting through ....... (hereinafter called the
"Government") on the one part and .......... (herein after called the owner/
person interested which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or
meaning thereof include his/ their successor and assignees) on the other
part.Whereas, the right, title, and interest of the owner/ person interested
in the following land/ lands (hereinafter called the land/ lands) is/ are as
specified below:(a)owner being the absolute owner of the property or having an
interest therein, capable of leading to ownership, ultimately hereinafter
mentioned and hereby conveyed in the following shares:-(1).......... Son of
..................... share ..(2).......... Son of ..................... share
..(3).......... Son of ..................... share ..(b)where the land/ lands
are held by the person interested under the owners named hereinafter with
respective terms and nature of interest:(1)......... Son of ........ Definite
term and nature of interest(2)......... Son of ........ Definite term and
nature of interest(3)......... Son of ........ Definite term and nature of
interestAnd whereas, the said lands/ lands specified in the Schedule below
have been acquired under the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial
Purposes Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1999) in respect of which notice
under sub-section (1) of section 3 was published by the Department in Part
Section of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the
..........................;And, whereas, the owner/ person interested agrees
to the deduction of the total amount deposited in case any or all of the
thing(s) attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything attached to
the earth is withdrawn with the prior approval of the Government;And, whereas,
the owner/ person interested further agrees to the deduction of the amount to
be mentioned in case they are allowed to harvest the standing drop thereon, by
the Government;Now, therefore, the owner/ person interested do hereby agrees
with the Government as follows:(1)The Government shall be competent to pay the
amount determined as per the terms of this agreement with any further enquiry
which is required to be held under the provisions of the Act.(2)If the
Government deem it necessary to take immediate possession of the land under
acquisition even that there is a standing crop on it, the Government will be
entitled to do so provided that compensation for the standing crop is
paid.(3)The owner/ person interested shall not claim any amount in addition to
the amount agreed upon aforesaid as compensation and accept it without any
protest.(4)If it hereafter or after the payment of compensation transpires
that the owner/ person interested is not entitled to the entire amount of
compensation paid by the Government in terms of this agreement in respect of
the said lands as mentioned at the end, the Government is required to pay any
compensation to any other person, the owner/ person interested shall, on
demand, refund to the Government the entire amount of money received by the
owner/ person interested or such amount as may be determined by the Government
as refundable by the owner/ person interested to the Government and shall also
indemnify jointly and severally the Government against and claim or
compensation or part thereof by any other person and against all proceedings
and liabilities of any loss or damage suffered by any of the charges or
expenses incurred by the Government by reason of the payment to the owner/
person interested and the owner/ person interested shall pay the interest at
the rate of nine per cent on the amount refundable for the first year and at
the rate of fifteen per cent for the subsequent years.(5)If the owner/ person
interested fails to refund to the Government the amount mentioned in the
preceding paragraph, the Government shall have the full right to recover the
same as arrears of land revenue or undertake to proceed under any law in force
for recovery of such amount.(6)Without prejudice to any other remedies for the
enforcement of any refund or indemnity, the Government may recover any sum
determined to be due and payable by the owner/ person interested to the
Government by way of refined or otherwise-under these presents as an arrear of
land revenue.(7)If any Government dues/ shares/ premium from his land/ lands
are payable by the owner/ person interested and the lands of any public
financial institutions are outstanding against the land/ lands, the same shall
be deducted from the said compensation amount that may be determined under
these presents.(8)The Government shall bear the stamp duty payable in respect
of this agreement.The ScheduleVillage .......Taluk .........District ......In
witness whereof, this......acting for an, on behalf of the party of the one
part and ..., the party of the other part have set their hands,
hereunder.(Signature of the party of the one part)Full Name
...........Designation .........Witnesses :

### 1\. .............

### 2\. .............

### 3\. .............*

(Signature of the party of the other part)Full Name ..........Address
.............Witnesses:

### 1\. ........

### 2\. ........

### 3\. ........

Form G[See Rule 11]AwardProceedings determining amount under the Tamil Nadu
Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of
1999)In extent of ......... hectares of dry/ wet land in R.S. No. in Chitta
No. ............. as accounted tar in the accounts village .......... The
total extent is ........... hectares.The extent under acquisition is .........
hectares. Separate Sub-division No. ........... has been awarded to the extent
under acquisition. The pattadars of the above lands are enjoying the lands and
remitting dry land revenue and other related taxes. The lands are owned by
them by purchase/ heredity. No other person has made any claim of ownership on
those lands. There are no trees, wells, structures, ancient antiques which
will hurt the religious feeling of the public. There are no encumbrance's.
Every person to whom the amount has been paid was given an opportunity to
state his case as to the amount as required under sub-section (5) of the
section 7 of the said Act. The land owners have given their consent to receive
the amount determined without any objection. They have not objected to acquire
the land. Therefore, the amount determined pertaining to the acquisition of
lands are as and shall be paid to Thiru ................

Land value for Rs. | :  
---|---  
No Dry/ Wet extent | :  
.................. hectare at the rate or Rs. | :  
.................. hectare. |   
.................. buildings. |   
Total land value Rs. | :  
Total amount determined Rs. | :  
(Rupees ........................... only)  
  
Name and address of the owner/ person interested. | Land extent owned. | Amount due.Rs. P.  
---|---|---  
  
Form H[See Rule 12]Notice under Sub-Section (2) of Section 23 of the Tamil
Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu Act 10
of 1999)Under sub-section (2) of section 23 of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of
Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1999), notice is
hereby given that the land/ lands specified in the Schedule below', measuring
hectare/ acres situated in the village of........................in the taluk
of.......... in the district of ........... in respect of which proceedings
have been started for the acquisition for a public purpose/ for company under
the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894) and notification under
sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894issued in G.O.
Ms. No. ............. of ......... Department, dated and published at page
.......... of Part II section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, and no
award has been made so for under section 11 of the Land and Acquisition Act,
1894 is/ are required for the company to wit for the industrial purpose of
setting up of ........

