## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Appointment on Preferential Basis in the Services under the
State of Persons Studied in Tamil Medium Act, 2010

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Appointment on Preferential Basis in the Services under the
State of Persons Studied in Tamil Medium Act, 2010

## Act 40 of 2010

  * Published on 12 October 2004 
  * Commenced on 12 October 2004 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 October 2004.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Appointment on Preferential Basis in the Services under the
State of Persons Studied in Tamil Medium Act, 2010Act No. 40 of 2010Statement
of Objects and Reasons - Tamil being the oldest language dating back to 2500
years, having all the epithets of a classical language, has been declared so
by the Government of India on the 12th October, 2004.2\. The Government of
Tamil Nadu, in a bid to commemorate the classical status attained by Tamil,
convened the World Classical Tamil Conference at Coimbatore for a period of
five days from 23rd to 27th Tune, 2010.3\. Tamil Scholars from well over fifty
countries at the global level attended the said Conference and submitted
research papers about the richness of Tamil in literature, grammar, besides
being the oldest of the languages in the world.4\. In the valedictory function
that took place on the 27th June 2010, one among the several resolutions
passed relates to providing preferential appointment to persons studied in
Tamil Medium in the services under the State with the prime object of
conducting the administration of the State with openness and transparency in
the vocal language of the masses of the locale in accordance with the
provisions of the Constitution of India and other law of the land in force.5\.
Those who have studied in Tamil Medium have very little chances of getting
selected in the employment of Central Government, other State Governments or
in private sectors. Therefore, preference need be given to them in the State
Government Services.6\. The Government have considered the resolution relating
to providing preferential appointment of persons who studied in Tamil Medium
taking into account the fact that majority of schools and college courses in
the State of Tamil Nadu are through Tamil medium and have decided to set apart
twenty per cent of vacancies in appointment in the services under the State
which are to be filled through direct recruitment to persons studied in Tamil
Medium. The Government have, therefore, decided to bring in a Legislation for
the above purpose. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Appointment on Preferential
Basis in the Services under the State of Persons Studied in Tamil Medium
Ordinance, 2010 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 3 of 2010) was promulgated by the
Governor and the same was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 7th September, 2010.7\. The Bill seeks to replace the
said Ordinance.Received the Assent of the Governor of Tamil Nadu on November
27, 2010 - Published in Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, Extraordinary, Part IV,
Section 2, Iss. No. 363, pages 233-235, dated November 29, 2010.An Act to
provide preference in appointment in the services under the State to persons
who have obtained the educational qualification prescribed for direct
recruitment through Tamil Medium of instruction.Whereas under Article 345 of
the Constitution, the Legislature of the State has been given power to adopt
any one or more of the languages in use in the State for official purposes;And
Whereas the State of Tamil Nadu enacted the Tamil Nadu Official Language Act,
1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXIX of 1956) and adopted Tamil as the official language
of the State under Article 345 of the Constitution;And Whereas the Official
Languages Act, 1963 (Central Act 19 of 1963) provides for continuation of
English language for all the official purposes of the Union and for the
transaction of business in Parliament;And Whereas the First Proviso to Section
3(1)(b) of Central Act 19 of 1963 provides that English shall be used for
purposes of communication between the Union and the States;And Whereas Article
348 in Chapter III of Part XVII of the Constitution provides that
notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions of that Part, until the
Parliament by law otherwise provides, all proceedings in the Supreme Court and
in every High Court shall be in the English language;And Whereas Tamil has
been used as the language of Courts up to the district level inclusive of
drafting of pleadings of parties, taking evidence, arguments of respective
counsel for the parties and writing of judgements;And Whereas those who have
studied in Tamil Medium have very little chances of getting selected in the
employment of Central Government, other State Governments or in Private
Sectors, and therefore preference need be given to them in the State
Government Services.And Whereas under Article 14 of the Constitution, mere
differentiation or inequality of treatment does not per se amount to
differentiation within the inhibition of the equal protector Clause and to
attract the operation of the Clause, it is necessary to show that the
selection or differentiation is unreasonable or arbitrary; that it does not
rest on airy rational basis having regard to the object which the Legislature
has in view;And Whereas the classification between persons who obtained the
educational qualification prescribed for direct recruitment through Tamil
Medium of instruction and persons studied in other medium has a reasonable
relation to the object sought to be achieved;And Whereas such classification
neither crosses the frontiers of Article 16 of the Constitution nor prejudices
the reservation policy of the State made thereunder;And Whereas the equality
of opportunity of all citizens with similar qualifications relating to
appointment to airy services under the State does not get altered in view of
such classification;And Whereas the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Backward
Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of seats in
Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under
the State) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1994) are not transgressed:And
Whereas unless employment opportunities are provided for persons studied in
Tamil Medium, there is to scope for the populace of the State to pursue school
and college career through Tamil Medium;And Whereas in order to facilitate a
conducive environment for the populace to prefer Tamil Medium of instruction
at all levels of education, appointment to any services under the State on
preferential basis of persons studied in Tamil Medium is a rational
classification;Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil
Nadu in the Sixty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and Commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Appointment on Preferential Basis in
the Services under the State of Persons Studied in Tamil Medium Act,
2010.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on 7th day of September
2010.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"direct recruitment"
means first appointment of a person to any service under the State in
accordance with the Rules or Regulations or orders in force;(b)"Government"
means the State Government;(c)"persons studied in other Medium" means persons
who have obtained the educational qualification or qualifications prescribed
for direct recruitment in the Rules or Regulations or orders applicable to any
appointment in the services under the State through any Medium of instruction
other than Tamil;(d)"persons studied in Tamil medium" means persons who have
obtained the educational qualification or qualifications prescribed for direct
recruitment in the Rules or Regulations or orders applicable to any
appointment in the services under the State through Tamil Medium of
instruction;(e)"preferential vacancies " means such vacancies available for
persons studied in Tamil medium under sub-section (1) of Section
3;(f)"services under the State" includes the services under-(i)the
Government;(ii)the Legislature of the State;(iii)any Local Authority;(iv)any
Corporation or Company owned or controlled by the Government; and(v)any other
authority in respect of which the State Legislature has power to make laws;

### 3. Preferential appointment.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force
and subject to Section 5, twenty per cent of all vacancies in appointment in
the services under the State which are to be filled through direct recruitment
shall be set apart on preferential basis to persons studied in Tamil
Medium.(2)Selection for appointment under sub-section (1) shall be made in
such manner as may be prescribed.(3)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall
apply in the case of appointment to the posts in the services under the State
for which the educational qualification prescribed in the Rules or Regulations
or orders applicable to the post is a degree or diploma or any academic
distinction in a language.

### 4. Right to compete for other vacancies not to be affected.

\- Persons studied in Tamil Medium shall also be entitled to compete for the
vacancies, other than preferential vacancies in appointment in the services
under the State, along with persons studied in other medium.

### 5. Reservation to apply.

\- Preferential basis appointments to persons studied in Tamil Medium under
Section 3 shall be made following the reservation as per law in force.

### 6. Filling up of vacancies in preferential allotment.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 3, where adequate number of
qualified and suitable persons studied in Tamil Medium are not available for
appointment in the preferential vacancies, such unfilled vacancies shall be
filled up with persons studied in other mediums within the respective
category.

### 7. Power to exempt.

\- The Government may, by general or special order, for just and equitable
reasons, exempt any appointment or post in the services under the State from
the provisions of this Act.

### 8. Power to make Rules.

(1)The Government may make Rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)All Rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every Rule made or Notification or order issued under this Act
shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the Table
of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in
any such Rule or Notification or order, or the Assembly decides that the Rule
or Notification or order should not be made or issued, the Rule or
Notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form
or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done imder that Rule or Notification or order.

### 9. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order, published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
as may appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two
years from the date of the publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.

### 10. Repeal and Saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Appointment on preferential basis in the Services under the
State of Persons Studied in Tamil Medium Ordinance, 2010 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance
3 of 2010) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or
any action taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under this Act.

