## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994

## Act 27 of 1994

  * Published on 18 May 1994 
  * Commenced on 18 May 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 May 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1994Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tiruchirappalli City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1994). - The question of
constituting a municipal corporation for Tiruchirappalli has been engaging the
attention of the Government for some time past Apart from the numerous
requests made on the floor of the Legislative Assembly and representations
received from the public, the town has significantly developed industrially
and therefore, civic amenities of high order are the legitimate expectation of
the people of this town. In all counts it has reached the status of a
corporation and is ripe to be upgraded as such. The Government, therefore,
took a decision to upgrade Tiruchirappalli Municipality in to a municipal
corporation. Accordingly, the limits of Tiruchirappalli municipality was
extended recently by the inclusion of certain adjoining areas.2\. The
Tiruchirappalli municipality is now being governed by the provisions of the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920). For
future administration on and from the date of the constitution of a municipal
corporation for Tiruchirappalli, a new and separate enactment has become
necessary. Hence, it is proposed to undertake a special legislation adopting
the provisions of the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil
Nadu Act 25 of 1981) with such modifications as are necessary.3\. The Bill
seeks to achieve the above objects. The Notes on Clauses appended to this Bill
explain in detail the provisions of the Bill.Published in Part IV-section 1 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 3rd May.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil
Nadu Act 3 of 1997). - While the terms of office of Chairmen and Vice-chairmen
of all Town Panchayats and Municipalities and that of Mayors of Corporations
were five years, the term of Deputy Mayors of Corporations alone was one year.
With a view to have uniformity in the term of office of Mayors, Deputy Mayors,
Chairmen and Vice-chairmen in all the Urban Local Bodies in the State, the
Government decided to make the term of Deputy Mayors of all Corporations in
the State also as five years.2\. Further, the Government have to nominate
members to each urban local body in addition to the councillors elected by the
public. The Government decided not to nominate any member as that would have
increased the strength of the councils and made it unnecessarily large.3\. The
term of office of Special Officers of Courtallam and Bhavanisagar
Municipalities and Yercaud Town Panchayat for which elections were not
conducted so far was to expire on the 31st December 1996. A proposal to re-
constitute the local bodies as Town Panchayat and Panchayat Union,
respectively is under consideration of Government. Since pending a decision on
this proposal, it is not possible to conduct elections to these local bodies
before the 31st December 1996 and therefore the Government decided to extend
the term of office of Special Officers of these local bodies for a further
period of six months from the 31st December 1996.4\. The Chief Minister in a
conference of all the Chairmen and Mayors of Urban Local Bodies in the State
held at Chennai on the 30th November and 1st December 1996 announced the
acceptance of some of the recommendations made by the work groups of
chairpersons. He also announced that in pursuance of this, certain amendments
to the Local Body Acts would be made by the promulgation of an Ordinance.
Accordingly, the Government decided to amend the Acts governing the
Corporations and Municipalities for the following purposes, namely:-(1)
Constitution of an Appointments Committee in the Corporation of Chennai;(2)
increasing the number of Standing Committees from three to six in all
Corporations;(3) empowering the Government to entrust additional functions
under the Corporations Acts to the Mayors;(4) empowering the Government to fix
monetary limits for authorities of the Corporations for execution of works;(5)
empowering the municipal councils to elect four councillors as members of the
Taxations Appeals Committee in the Municipalities; and(6) increasing the
period of three years for assessing the escaped assessment of property tax to
six years.5\. To give effect to the above said decisions, three Ordinances,
namely, the Tamil Nadu Municipal Corporation Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 1996
(Tamil Nadu Ordinance 5 of 1996), the Tamil Nadu Municipal Laws (Fifth
Amendment) Ordinance, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 8 of 1996) and the Tamil Nadu
Municipal Laws (Sixth Amendment) Ordinance 1996 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 12 of
1996) have been promulgated by the Governor on the 18th October 1996,14th
November 1996 and 27th December, 1996, respectively to amend the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 192(1 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), the Chennai
City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919), the Madurai
City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981),
the Tiruchirapalli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1994), the Tirunelveli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 28
of 1994) and the Salem City Municipal Corporations Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1994), suitably.6\. This Bill seeks to replace the above said
Ordinances.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 29th January 1997.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies (Suspension of Operation) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu
Act 33 of 2000). - The Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
9 of 1999) and the rules made thereunder were brought into force with effect
from the 1st August 2000. However, representation have been received from
certain local bodies requesting time to study the Act and Rules before their
actual implementation. In order to allow time for the local bodies to study
the provisions of the Act and Rules and to suggest changes, if necessary, and
to dispel the doubts that linger on, the Government have decided to suspend
the operation of the said Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Act, 1998 and the
rules made thereunder and to revive the operation of enactments and the rules,
etc., repealed by the said Act, so as to enable the local bodies to carry out
all the activities under the provisions of the revived enactments and the
rules, etc., and to function as before that is to say, prior to the 1st August
2000. To give effect to the above decision, the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies
(Suspension of Operation) Ordinance, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 5 of 2000) was
promulgated by the Governor on the 23rd August 2000 and the same was published
in Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the 23rd August
2000.2\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part IV-
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 7th
December 2000.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Municipal Laws
(Sixth Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu 38 of 2008). - The Government
constituted a High Level Committee under the Chairmanship of Honourable
Minister for Rural Development and Local Administration, to examine and give
recommendations on devolution of more powers and functions upon Urban Local
Bodies.2\. The said High Level Committee has recommended, among others, that
the Acts governing urban local bodies of the State may be suitably amended to
prescribe Mayors of City Municipal Corporations as an authority under the said
Acts. The Committee has also given certain recommendations regarding
prerogatives of the Mayor, relating to, access to records of the Corporation,
important correspondences between Corporation and Government and also,
regarding entrustment of additional functions to Mayor.3\. The said High Level
Committee has also recommended that the financial power of the Contract
Committee of the Municipalities may be enhanced up to Rs. 50,000.4\. The
Government have, therefore, decided to accept the above recommendations of the
said High Level Committee and to amend the Acts governing urban local bodies
suitably, for this purpose.5\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 13th May 2008.[Dated 18.5.1994]An Act to provide for the
establishment of a Municipal Corporation for the City of Tiruchirappalli.Be it
enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-
fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation Act,
1994.(2)It extends to the City of Tiruchirappalli.(3)It shall come into force
on such date, as the Government may, by notification, appoint.The
Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1994), came into force on 1st June 1994 vide Municipal Administration and
Water Supply Department Notification No. II (2)/MW/2021 Ca-1l)/94 (G, O. Ms.
No, 153, M.A. & W.S./ dated 1st June 1994).

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)[xxx] [Clause (a)
was omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1996.](b)"Corporation" means the Municipal
Corporation of Tiruchirappalli constituted under section 3;(c)"Council" means
the Municipal Council of Tiruchirappalli;(d)"date of the commencement of this
Act" means the date appointed under subsection (3) of section
1;(e)"Government" means the State Government;(f)"Municipality" means the
Tiruchirappalli Municipality;(g)"Scheduled Castes" and "Scheduled Tribes"
shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in clauses (24) and
(25) of Article 366 of the Constitution;(h)all words and expressions used in
this Act and not defined but defined in the Coimbatore City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981) (hereinafter referred to as
the 1981 Act), shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the
1981 Act.

### 3. Establishment of Municipal Corporation for the City of Tiruchirappalli.

(1)With effect on and from the date of the commencement of this Act, the local
area included in the Tiruchirappalli Municipality shall constitute the City of
Tiruchirappalli for purposes of this Act; and from such date of the
commencement, a municipal corporation shall be deemed to have been established
for the said City by the name of Tiruchirappalli Municipal
Corporation:Provided that the Government may, from time to time, after
consultation with the corporation, by notification, alter the limits of the
City constituted under this sub-section so as to include therein or to exclude
therefrom the areas specified in the notification:Provided further that the
power to issue a notification under this sub-section shall be subject to
previous publication.(2)The corporation shall, by the said name, be a body
corporate, having perpetual succession and a common seal with power to
acquire, hold and dispose of property and to enter into contracts and may by
its corporate name, sue and be sued.(3)The Tiruchirappalli Municipality,
functioning immediately before the date of the commencement of this Act, shall
be deemed to have been abolished from such commencement.

### 4. Municipal Authorities.

\- The municipal authorities charged with carrying out the provisions of this
Act shall be,-(1)[ a Mayor; [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Municipal Laws (6th
Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 2008).](1-a) a council;](2)a
standing committee;(3)a Commissioner; and(4)a wards committee.

### 5. Constitution of council.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), the council shall consist of
such number of councillors elected in the manner laid down in this Act as may
be fixed by the Government, by notification, from time to time, so, however,
that the total number of councillors of the council shall not exceed seventy-
two at any time.(2)The following persons shall also be represented in the
council, namely: -(a)[xxx] [Clause (a) of sub-section (2) was omitted by Tamil
Nadu Act 3 of 1997.][x x x] [Proviso to Clause (a) of sub-section (2) zvas
omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1996.](b)the members of the House of the
People representing constituencies which comprise wholly or partly the area of
the corporation and the members of the Council of States registered as
electors within the area of the corporation:(c)[ all the members of the Tamil
Nadu Legislative Assembly representing constituencies which comprise wholly or
partly the area of the corporation.] [Clause (c) of subsection (2) was
substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1996.](d)[xxx] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act
22 of 1996.][(2-A) The persons referred to in sub-section (2) shall be
entitled to take part in the proceedings but shall not have the right to vote
in the meetings of the council.] [Sub-section (2-A) was inserted by Tamil Nadu
Act 22 of 1996.](3)Seats shall be reserved for the persons belonging to the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the council and the number of
seats so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the
total number of seats to be filled by direct election in the council as the
population of the Scheduled Castes in the City or of the Scheduled Tribes in
the City bears to the total population of the City:Provided that for the first
election to be held immediately after the date of the commencement of this
Act, the provisional population figures of the City as published in relation
to 1991 census shall be deemed to be the population of the City as ascertained
in that census.(4)Seats shall be reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, from among the seats reserved for the persons
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, which shall not be
less than one-third of the total number of seats reserved for the persons
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.(4-A) [x x x] [Sub-
sections (4-A) and (4-B) were inserted by Tamil Nadu Act of 1995 and omitted
by Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1996.](4-B) [x x x] [Sub-sections (4-A) and (4-B) were
inserted by Tamil Nadu Act of 1995 and omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 17 of
1996.](5)Seats shall be reserved for women in the council and the number of
seats reserved for women shall not be less than one-third (including the
number of seats reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes) of the total number of seats in the council.(6)The
reservation of seats under sub-sections (3) and (4) shall cease to have effect
on the expiry of the period specified in Article 334 of the Constitution.

### 6. Duration of corporation.

(1)The corporation, unless sooner dissolved, shall continue for five years
from the date appointed for its first meeting and no longer and the said
period of five years shall operate as a dissolution of the corporation.(2)An
election to constitute the corporation shall be completed,-(a)before the
expiry of its duration specified in sub-section (1); or(b)before the
expiration of a period of six months from the date of its dissolution:Provided
that where the remainder of the period for which the dissolved corporation
would have continued, is less than six months, it shall not be necessary to
hold any election, under this sub-section for constituting the corporation for
such period.

### 7. Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 not to apply.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) (hereafter in
this section referred to as the "District Municipalities Act") shall, with the
effect on and from the date of the commencement of this Act, cease to apply to
the local area comprised within the City of Tiruchirappalli.(2)Such cesser
shall not affect,-(a)the previous operation of the District Municipalities
Act, in respect of the local area comprised within the City of
Tiruchirappalli;(b)any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect
of any offence committed against the District Municipalities Act; or(c)any
investigation, legal proceedings or remedy in respect of such penalty,
forfeiture or punishment, and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be imposed as if this Act had not been passed.(3)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), all appointments, notifications, notices, rules,
bye-laws, regulations, orders, directions, licences, permissions, schemes,
forms and powers made or issued or conferred under the District Municipalities
Act, and in force on the date of the commencement of this Act, shall, so far
as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue to be
in force in the local area comprised within the City of Tiruchirappalli until
they are replaced by the appointments, notifications, notices, rules, bye-
laws, regulations, orders, directions, licences, permissions, schemes, forms
and powers to be made or issued or conferred under this Act.

### 8. Application of the provisions of the 1981 Act to the corporation.

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided herein, all the provisions of the 1981
Act including the provisions relating to the levy and collection of any tax or
fee, are hereby extended to and shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
corporation and the 1981 Act shall, in relation to the corporation be read and
construed as if the provisions of this Act had formed part of the 1981
Act.(2)For the purpose of facilitating the application of the provisions of
the 1981 Act to the corporation, the Government may, by notification, make
such adaptations and modifications of the 1981 Act and the rules and bye-laws
made thereunder whether by way of repealing, amending or suspending any
provision thereof, as may be necessary or expedient and thereupon, the 1981
Act and the rules made thereunder, shall apply to the corporation subject to
the adaptations and modifications so made.(3)Notwithstanding that no provision
or insufficient provision has been made under sub-section (2) for the
adaptation of the provisions of the 1981 Act, or the rules and bye-laws made
thereunder, any Court, tribunal or authority required or empowered to enforce
these provisions may, for the purpose of facilitating their application to the
corporation, construe these provisions in such manner, without affecting the
substance, as may be necessary or proper having regard to the matter before
the Court, tribunal or authority.(4)In the 1981 Act as extended and applied to
the City of Tiruchirappalli, -(a)any reference to the City of Coimbatore and
Coimbatore Municipality, shall by reason of this Act, be construed as a
reference to the City of Tiruchirappalli and Tiruchirappalli Municipality,
respectively; and(b)any reference to the Coimbatore Corporation, Corporation
of Coimbatore and Municipal Corporation of Coimbatore, shall by reason of this
Act, be construed as a reference to the Tiruchirappalli Corporation,
Corporation of Tiruchirappalli and Municipal Corporation of Tiruchirappalli,
respectively.

### 9. Transitional provisions.

(1)All property, all rights of whatever kind, used, enjoyed or possessed by,
and all interests of whatever kind owned by, or vested in, or held in trust by
or for the council, with all rights of whatever kind used, enjoyed or
possessed by the said council, as well as all liabilities legally subsisting
against the said council, shall, on and from the date of the commencement of
this Act and subject to such directions as the Government may, by general or
special order, give in this behalf, vest with the corporation.(2)All arrears
of taxes or other payments by way of composition for a tax, or due for
expenses or compensation, or otherwise due to the said council on the date of
such commencement may be recovered as if they had accrued to the corporation
and may be recovered as if the said arrears or payments had become, due under
the provisions Of this Act.(3)All taxes, fees and duties, which immediately
before the date of the commencement of this Act, were being levied by the said
council, shall be deemed to have been levied by the corporation under the
provisions of this Act and shall continue to be in force accordingly until
such taxes, fees and duties are revised, cancelled or superseded by anything
done or any action taken under this Act.(4)All proceedings taken by, or
against, the council or authority or any person under the District
Municipalities Act, may be continued by, or against, the corporation,
authority or person as if the said proceedings had been commenced under the
provisions of this Act.(5)Any action taken under the District Municipalities
Act, by any authority before the date of such commencement shall be deemed to
have been taken by the authority competent to take such action under this Act
as if this Act had then been in force.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act, every officer or employee who, immediately before the date of such
commencement was in the service of the municipality shall, on and from the
date of the commencement of this Act, be deemed to be an officer or employee
of the corporation:Provided that,-(a)the terms and conditions applicable to
such officers and employees consequent on their absorption in the service of
the corporation shall not be less favourable than those applicable to such
employees immediately before the date of such commencement, as regards pay and
allowances, leave, pension, gratuity, provident fund and age of
superannuation; and(b)the service rendered by any such officer or other
employee under the municipality up to the date of such commencement shall be
deemed to be service under the corporation and he shall be entitled to count
that service for the purpose of increments, leave, pension, provident fund and
gratuity:Provided further that any officer or other employee serving in the
municipality shall be given an option to be exercised within such time and in
such manner as may be prescribed either to be absorbed in the service of the
corporation or to be retained in the service constituted under section 73-A of
the District Municipalities Act, or to be retrenched from the service of the
municipality on such retrenchment benefits as may be prescribed.(7)Any
division of the Tiruchirappalli Municipality into wards made under the
District Municipalities Act, and in force of the date of the commencement of
this Act shall be deemed to be a division of the corporation until
altered.(8)The electoral roll prepared for the Tiruchirappalli Municipality
under the District Municipalities Act, and in force on the date of the
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the electoral roll for the
corporation until a new electoral roll is prepared and published and the part
of the said electoral roll relating to each ward of the municipality shall be
deemed to be the list of the electoral roll for the corresponding division of
the corporation.

### 10. Appointment of Special Officer.

(1)There shall be appointed by the Government, by notification, a Special
Officer to exercise the powers, perform the duties and discharge the functions
of-(1)the council;(2)the standing committee;(3)the Commissioner; and(4)the
wards committee.(2)The Government shall cause elections to be held to the
corporation so that the newly elected councillors and the Mayor may come into
office [on or before the 31st day of December 1996.] [Substituted by Tamil
Nadu Act 16 of 1996.](3)The Special Officer shall exercise the powers, perform
the duties and discharge the functions,-(a)of the corporation, until the
elected councillors come into office;(b)of the standing committee, until a
standing committee is appointed by the corporation; and(c)of the Commissioner,
until a Commissioner is appointed by the Government and such officer may, if
the Government so direct, receive remuneration for his services from the
municipal fund.(4)Until a new Special Officer is appointed by the Government
under subsection (1), the Special Officer of the municipality functioning
immediately before the date of the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to
be the Special Officer of the corporation and he shall exercise the powers and
perform the duties and discharge the functions as those exercised, performed
and discharged by the Special Officer appointed under sub-section (1).(5)The
Special Officer referred to in sub-section (1) or in sub-section (4) shall
hold office [upto the 31st day of December 1996 or for shorter period as the
Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.] [Substituted by
Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1996.]

### 11. Power to make rule.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(3)Every rule made or notification or order issued
under this Act shall as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be
placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any such rule or notification or order, or the Assembly
decides that the rule or notification or order should not be made or issued,
the rule or notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification or order.

### 12. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two
years from the date of the commencement of this Act.

