## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Beedi Industrial Premises (Regulation of Conditions of Work)
Act, 1958

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Beedi Industrial Premises (Regulation of Conditions of Work)
Act, 1958

## Act 32 of 1958

  * Published on 3 December 1958 
  * Commenced on 3 December 1958 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 December 1958.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Beedi Industrial Premises (Regulation of Conditions of Work)
Act, 1958Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1958Received the assent of the President on the
3rd December 1958 and Published in the Port St. George Gazette on the 10th
December 1958.An Act to regulate the conditions of work in beedi industrial
premises in the State of Tamil Nadu.Whereas it is expedient to regulate the
conditions of work in beedi industrial premises in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be
it enacted in the Ninth Year of the republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

\- This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Beedi Industrial Premises (Regulation
of Conditions of Work) Act, 1958.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of
Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may by
notification, appoint, and different dates may be appointed for different
areas and for different provisions of this Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"adult" means a
person who has completed eighteen years of age;(b)"Beedi industrial premises"
means any place or premises, including the precincts thereof, in any part of
which any manufacturing process connected with the production of beedies is
being carried on or is ordinarily carried on with or without the aid of
power;(c)"beedi industry" means any industry relating to the manufacture of
beedies;(d)"child" means a person who has not completed fourteen years of
age;(e)"competent authority" means any officer authorized by the Government by
notification to perform the functions of the competent authority under this
Act for such area as may be specified in the notification;(f)"employee" means
a person employed directly or through any agency whether for wages or not in
any beedi industry to do any work, skilled, unskilled, manual or clerical and
includes any person who is employed in such industry and declared by the
Government by notification to be an employee for the purposes of this
Act;(g)"employer" means the person who has the ultimate control over the
affairs of any beedi industrial premises or who has, by reason of his
advancing money, supplying goods or otherwise, a substantial interest in the
control of the affairs of any beedi industrial premises and includes-(i)a
proprietor or a registered user of a trade mark registered under the [Trade
Marks Act, 1940 (Central Act V of 1940)] [This Act Mas repealed and re-enacted
as the Trade and Merchandise Act, 1999 (Central Act 47 of 1999).], in relation
to beedi; and(ii)any other person to whom the affairs of any beedi industrial
premises are entrusted (whether such other person is called a managing agent,
manager, superintendent, or by any other name);(h)"Government" means the State
Government;(i)"Inspector" means the Inspector appointed under sub-section (1)
of section 6;(j)"manufacturing process" means any process for, or incidental
to, making, finishing or packing or otherwise treating any article or
substance with a view to its use, sale, transport, delivery, or disposal as
beedies;(k)"week" means a period of seven days beginning at midnight at
Saturday night;(l)"young person" means a person who has completed fourteen
years of age, but not completed eighteen years of age.

### 3. Beedi industrial premises to be licensed.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no place or premises shall, on and
after such date as the Government may, by notification, specify in this
behalf, be used as a beedi industrial premises without a licence obtained from
the competent authority and except in accordance with the, terms and
conditions specified therein.

### 4. Licences.

(1)Any person who intends to use any place or premises as a beedi industrial
premises shall make an application in writing to the competent authority for a
licence therefor together with such particulars as may be prescribed.(2)The
application shall specify the maximum number of employees proposed to be
employed at any time of the day in the place or premises and shall be
accompanied by a plan of the place or premises prepared in such manner as may
be prescribed.(3)The competent authority shall, in deciding whether to grant
or refuse a licence, have regard to the following matters, namely:-(a)the
suitability of the place or premises which is proposed to be used for the
manufacture of beedies;(b)the status and previous experience of the
applicant;(c)the financial resources of the applicant including his financial
capacity to meet the demands arising out of the provisions of the laws for the
time being in force relating to welfare of labour;(d)whether the application
is made bona fide on behalf of the applicant himself or benami on behalf of
any other person;(e)whether the beedi manufactured by the applicant will be
sold and marketed by himself or through a proprietor or a registered user of a
trade mark registered under the Trade Marks Act, 1940 (Central Act V of
1940)1, in relation to beedi or any other person;(f)the welfare of labour in
the locality;(g)the interest of the public generally; and(h)such other matters
as may be prescribed.(4)(a)A licence granted under this section shall be valid
for a financial year and shall be renewed from financial year to financial
year.(b)The competent authority shall, in deciding whether to renew a licence
or to refuse a renewal thereof, have regard to the matters specified in sub-
section (3).(5)The competent authority shall not grant or renew a licence
unless it is satisfied that the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder have been substantially complied with.(6)The competent authority
may cancel or suspend any licence granted or renewed under this Act if it
appears to it, after giving the holder, thereof an opportunity of being heard,
that such licence has been obtained by misrepresentation or fraud or that the
licence has contravened, or failed to comply with, any of the provisions of
this Act or the rules made thereunder or any of the terms or conditions of the
licence.(7)The Government may issue to competent authority such orders and
directions of a general character as the Government may consider necessary in
respect of any matter relating to licence under this section.(8)Subject to the
foregoing provisions of this section, the competent authority may grant or
renew licences under this Act on such terms and, conditions as it may
determine. Where the competent authority refuses to grantor renew any licence,
it shall do so by an order communicated to the applicant, giving the reasons
in writing for such refusal.

### 5. Appeals.

\- Any person aggrieved by the decision of the competent authority refusing to
grant or renew a licence or cancelling a licence under section 4 may, within
such time as may be prescribed, appeal to such authority as the Government may
specify in this behalf and such authority may make such order in the case as
it thinks fit.

### 6. Inspectors.

(1)The Government may, by notification, appoint such person as possess the
prescribed qualification to be Inspectors for the purposes of this Act and may
assign to them such local limits as they may think it.(2)Every Inspector shall
be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of Indian Penal Code
(Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 7. Powers of Inspectors.

(1)Subject to any rules made in this behalf, an Inspector appointed under this
Act shall, for the purposes of the enforcement of this Act, have power to do
all or any of the following things within the local limits for which he is
appointed:-(a)to make such examination and hold such enquiry as may be
necessary for ascertaining whether the provisions of this Act have been and
are being complied with in any place or premises,(b)to require the production
of any prescribed register and any other document relating to the manufacture
of beedies,(c)to enter at all reasonable times any place or premises including
the residence of employees when he has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
any beedi industry is being carried on or, is ordinarily carried on in any
such place or premises,(d)to exercise such other powers as may be prescribed
for carrying put the purposes of this Act:Provided that no person shall be
compelled under this section to answer any question or give any evidence
tending to incriminate himself.(2)For the purposes of clause (c) of sub-
section (1), an Inspector may, after giving due notice to the employer, or in
the absence of the employer, to the occupier, enter the beedi industrial
premises with such assistants, if any, as he thinks fit.(3)Every employer
shall accord to the Inspector all reasonable facilities in the discharge of
his duties under this Act.

### 8. Cleanliness.

\- Every beedi industrial premises shall be kept clean and free from effluvia
arising from any drain, privy or other nuisance and in
particular-(a)accumulations of dirt and refuse shall be removed daily by
sweeping or by any other effective method from the floors and benches of work
rooms and from staircases and passages, and disposed of in a suitable
manner;(b)the floor of every work room shall be cleaned at least once in every
week by washing, using disinfectants, where necessary, or by some other
effective method;(c)all inside walls, and partitions, all ceilings or tops of
rooms and all walls, side and tops of passages and staircases shall-(i)where
they are painted or varnished, or where they have smooth impervious surfaces,
be cleaned at least once in every period of fourteen months by such methods as
may be prescribed;(ii)where they are painted or varnished be re-painted or re-
vanished at least once in every period of five years;(iii)in any other case,
be kept white washed or colour washed at least once in every twelve months.

### 9. Ventilation.

(1)The Government may prescribe a standard of adequate ventilation and
reasonable temperature to be maintained in the beedi industrial
premises.(2)Wherever dust or fume or other impurity of such nature and to such
an extent as is likely to be injurious or offensive to the employees is given
off, by reason of the manufacturing process carried on, the competent
authority may require the employer to take such effective measures as may
prevent its inhalation and accumulation in any work room.

### 10. Over crowding.

(1)No room in any beedi industrial premises shall be over crowded to an extent
injurious to the health of the employee employed therein.(2)Without prejudice
to the generality of sub-section (1), there shall be in every work room of
such premises at least one hundred and fifty cubic feet of space for every
employee employed therein, and for the purposes of this sub-section, no
account shall be taken of any space which is more than ten feet above the
level of the floor,of the work room.

### 11. Drinking water.

(1)In every beedi industrial premises, effective arrangements shall be made by
the employer to provide and maintain at suitable points conveniently situated
for all employees a sufficient supply of wholesome drinking water.(2)All such
points shall be legibly marked "drinking water" in a language understood by
the majority of the employed in the premises and no such point shall be
situated within twenty feet of any washing place, urinal or latrine except
with the prior approval in writing of the competent authority.

### 12. Latrines and urinals.

(1)In every beedi industrial premises, sufficient latrine and urinal
accommodation of prescribed types shall be provided conveniently situated and
accessible to employees at all times while they are in the beedi industrial
premises:Provided that it shall not be necessary to provide for separate
urinals in the beedi industrial premises where less than fifty persons are
employed or where the latrines are connected to any water borne sewage
system.(2)The Government may prescribe the number of latrines and urinals to
be provided in any beedi industrial premises in proportion to the number of
male and female employees ordinarily employed therein and provide for such
further matters in respect of sanitation in the beedi industrial premises
including the obligation of employees in this regard, as they consider
necessary in the interest of the health of the employees employed therein.

### 13. Washing facilities.

\- In every beedi industrial premises where blending and sewing of tobacco or
warming of beedies in hot ovens is carried on, the employer shall provide such
washing facilities for the use of the employees as may be prescribed.

### 14. Creches.

(1)In every beedi industrial premises wherein more than fifty female employees
are ordinarily employed, there shall be provided and maintained a suitable
room or rooms for the use of children under the ages of six years of such
female employees.(2)Such rooms shall provide adequate accommodation, shall be
adequately lighted and ventilated, shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be under the charge of woman trained in the care of
children and infants.(3)The Government may make rules-(a)prescribing the
location and the standards in respect of construction, accommodation,
furniture and other equipment of rooms to be provided under this
section;(b)requiring the provision on beedi industrial premises to which this
section applies of additional facilities for the care of children belonging to
female employees, including suitable provision of facilities for washing and
changing their clothing;(c)requiring the provision in any beedi industrial
premises of free milk or refreshment or both for such children;(d)requiring
that facilities shall be given in any beedi industrial premises for the
mothers of such children to feed them at necessary intervals.

### 15. First Aid.

(1)There shall, in every beedi industrial premises, be provided and maintained
so as to be readily accessible during all working hours, first aid boxes or
cupboards equipped with the prescribed contents and the number of such boxes
or cupboards to be provided and maintained shall not be less than one for
every one hundred and fifty employees ordinarily employed at any one time in
the premises.(2)Nothing except the prescribed contents shall be kept in a
first aid box or cupboard.(3)Each first aid box or cupboard shall be kept in
the charge of a person who is trained in first aid treatment and who shall
always be readily available during the working hours of the beedi industrial
premises.

### 16. Canteens.

\- The Government may make rules requiring that in any specified beedi
industrial premises wherein not less than two hundred and fifty employees are
ordinarily employed, a canteen shall be provided and maintained by the
employer for the use of the employees.

### 17. Working hours.

\- No employee shall be required or allowed to work in a beedi industrial
premises for more than nine hours in any day or more than forty-eight hours in
any week:Provided that any adult employee may be allowed to work in such beedi
industrial premises for any period in excess of the limit fixed under this
section, subject to payment of overtime wages, if the period of work,
including overtime work, does not exceed ten hours in any day and in the
aggregate fifty-four hours in any week.

### 18. Wages for overtime work.

(1)Where any employee employed in any beedi industrial premises is required to
work overtime, he shall be entitled in respect of such overtime work to wages
at twice the ordinary rate of wages.(2)Where the employees in a beedi
industrial premises are paid on a piece rate basis, the Government shall, in
consultation with the employer concerned and the representative of the
employees, fix, for the purposes of this section, time rates as nearly as
possible equivalent to the average rate of earnings of those employees, and
the rates so fixed shall be deemed to be the ordinary rates of wages of those
employees.(3)For the purposes of this section, "ordinary rate of wages" means
the basic/ wages plus such allowances, including the cash equivalent of the
advantage accruing through the concessional sale to employees of foodgrains
and other articles, as the employees is for the time being entitled to, but
does not include a bonus.(4)The cash equivalent of the advantage accruing
through the concessional sale to an employee of foodgrains and other articles
shall be computed as often as may be prescribed on the basis of the maximum
quantity of foodgrains and other articles admissible to a standard
family.Explanation 1. - "Standard family" means a family consisting of the
employee, his or her spouse, and two children requiring in all three adult
consumption units.Explanation 2. - "Adult consumption unit" means the
consumption unit of a male above the age of fourteen years and the consumption
unit of a female above the age of fourteen years and that of a child shall be
calculated at the rate of 8 and 6, respectively, of one adult consumption
unit.

### 19. Interval for rest.

\- The periods of work for employees in a beedi industrial premises each day
shall be so fixed that no period shall exceed five hours and that no employee
shall work for more than five hours before he has had an interval for rest of
at least half-an-hour.

### 20. Spread over.

\- The periods of work of an employee in a beedi industrial premises shall be
so arranged that along with his interval for rest, they shall not spread over
more than ten hours in any day.

### 21. Weekly holidays.

(1)Every beedi industrial premises shall remain entirely closed except for
wetting of wrapping leaves on one day in the week which day shall be specified
by the employer in a notice permanently exhibited in a conspicuous place in
the premises and the day so specified shall not be altered by the employer
more often than once in three months and except with the previous written
permission of the Inspector.(2)Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (1), an
employee employed in the said premises for wetting of wrapping leaves on the
day on which it has remained closed in pursuance of sub-section (1) shall be
allowed a substituted holiday on one of the three days immediately before or
after the said day.(3)Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, no
deduction shall be made from the wages of any employee on account of any
holiday allowed to him under this section.

### 22. Notice of periods of work.

(1)There shall be correctly maintained and displayed in every beedi industrial
premises a notice of periods of work in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed showing clearly for every day the periods during which employees
may be required to work.(2)(a)A copy of the notice referred to in sub-section
(1) shall be sent in triplicate to the Inspector having jurisdiction over the
beedi industrial premises within two weeks from the date of grant of licence
for the first time in the case of premises carrying on work at the
commencement of this Act, and in the case of premises beginning work after
such commencement, before the day on which week is begun in the
premises.(b)Any proposed change in the system of work which will necessitate a
change in the,notice referred to in sub-section (1) shall be notified to the
Inspector in triplicate before the change is made and, except with the
previous sanction of the Inspector, no such change shall be made until one
week has elapsed since the last change.

### 23. Hours of work to correspond with notice under section 22.

\- No employee shall be employed in any beedi industrial premises otherwise
than in accordance with the notice of work displayed in the premises under
section 22.

### 24. Prohibition of employment of children.

\- No child shall be required or allowed to work in any beedi industrial
premises.

### 25. Prohibition of employment of women or young person during certain
hours.

\- No woman or young person shall be required or allowed to work in any beedi
industrial premises except between 6 a.m. to 7 p.m.

### 26. Annual leave with wages.

(1)Every employee who has worked for a period of not less than 240 days in a
beedi industrial premises during a calendar year shall be allowed in the
subsequent calendar year, leave with wages for a number of day
calculated-(i)in the case of an adult at the rate of one day for every twenty
days of work performed by him during the previous calendar year;(ii)in the
case of young person, at the rate of one day for every fifteen days of work
performed by him during the previous calendar year.Explanation 1. - The leave
admissible under this sub-section shall be exclusive of all holidays whether
occurring during or at the beginning or at the end of the period of
leave.Explanation 2. - For the purpose of this sub-section-(a)any days of lay-
off, by agreement or contract as permitted under the Standing Orders of the
beedi industrial premises concerned;(b)in the case of a female employee,
authorised absence for maternity purposes for any number of days not exceeding
twelve weeks;(c)the leave earned in the year prior to that in which the leave
is enjoyed;shall be deemed to be days on which the employee has worked for the
purpose of computation of the period of 240 days, but not for earning
leave.(2)An employee whose service commences otherwise than on the first five
days of January, shall be entitled to leave calculated in accordance with sub-
section (1) if he has worked for two-thirds of the total number of days in the
remainder of the calendar year.(3)If an employee is discharged or dismissed
from service during the course of the year, he shall be entitled to leave with
wages at the rate laid down in sub-section (1) even if he has not worked for
the entire period;-specified in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) entitling
him to earn leave.(4)In calculating leave under this section, any fraction of
leave of half a day or more shall be treated as one full day's leave and any
fraction less than half a day shall be omitted.(5)If an employee does not in
any calendar year take the whole of the leave allowed to him under sub-section
(1) or sub-section (2), as the case, may be, any leave not taken by him shall
be added to the leave to be allowed to him in the succeeding calendar
year:Provided that the total number of days of leave that may be carried
forward to a succeeding year shall not exceed thirty in the case of an adult
or forty in the case of a young person.(6)An application by an employee for
the whole or any portion of the leave allowed under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) shall be in writing and ordinarily be made sufficiently in advance
of the date on which he wishes his leave to begin.(7)If the employment of an
employee who is entitled to leave under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), as
the case may be, is terminated by the employer before he has taken the entire
leave to which he is entitled or if having applied for leave he has not been
granted such leave, or if the employees quits his employment therefore he has
taken the leave, the employer shall pay him the amount payable under section
27 in respect of leave not taken and such payment shall be made, where the
employment of the employee is terminated by the employer, before the expiry of
the second working day after such termination and where the employee quits his
employment, on or before the next pay day.(8)The leave not availed of by an
employee shall not be taken into consideration in computing the period of any
notice required to be given before discharge or dismissal.

### 27. Wages during leave period.

(1)For the leave allowed to him under section 26, an employee shall be paid at
a rate equal to the daily average of his total full-time earnings for the days
on which he worked during the month immediately preceding his leave exclusive
of any overtime and bonus, but inclusive of dearness allowance.(2)An employee
who has been allowed leave for not less than four days in the case of an adult
and five days in the case of a young person shall, before his leave begins, be
paid wages due for the period of the leave allowed.

### 28. Application of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 to beedi Industrial
premises.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Payment of Wages Act, 1936
(Central Act IV of 1936) (hereinafter in this section referred to as the said
Act), the Government may, by notification, direct that, subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), the said Act or any of the provisions thereof
or the rules made thereunder shall apply to all or any class of employees in
beedi industrial premises to which this Act applies.(2)On the application of
the provisions of the said Act to any beedi industrial premises under sub-
section (1), the Inspector appointed under this Act shall be deemed to be the
Inspector for the purpose of the enforcement of the provisions of the said Act
within the local limits of his jurisdiction.(3)The Government may, by like
notification, cancel or vary any notification issued under sub-section (1).

### 29. Special provisions.

(1)The Government may permit the wetting or cutting of, wrapping leaves by
female employees outside the beedi industrial premises on an application made
by the employer on behalf of such employees.(2)The employer shall maintain in
the prescribed form a record of the work permitted under sub-section (1) to be
carried on outside the beedi industrial premises.(3)Save as otherwise provided
in this section, no employer shall require or allow any manufacturing process
connected with the production of beedies to be carried on outside the beedi
industrial premises.

### 30. Onus as to age.

(1)When any act or omission would, if a person were under a certain age, be an
offence punishable under this Act and such person is in the opinion of the
Court prima facie under such age, the burden shall be on the accused to prove
that such person is not under such age.(2)A declaration in writing by a
Medical Officer not below the rank of a Civil Assistant Surgeon relating to an
employee that he has personally examined him and believes him to be under the
age stated in such declaration shall, for the purposes of this Act and the
rules made thereunder, be admissible as evidence of the age of that employee.

### 31. Notice of dismissal.

(1)No employer shall dispense with the services of an employee employed
continuously for a period of not less than six months, except for a reasonable
cause and without giving such employee at least one month's notice or wages in
lieu of such notice, provided, however, that such notice shall not be
necessary where the services of such employee are dispensed with on a charge
of misconduct supported by satisfactory evidence recorded at any enquiry held
for the purpose.(2)(a)Any employee discharged, dismissed or retrenched, may
appeal to such authority and within such time as may be prescribed either on
the ground "that there was no reasonable cause for dispensing with his
services or on the ground that he had not been guilty of misconduct as held by
the employer.(b)The appellate authority may, after giving notice in the
prescribed manner to the employer and the employee, dismiss the appeal or
direct the reinstatement of the employee with or without wages for the period
he was kept out of employment or direct payment of compensation without
reinstatement or grant such other relief as it deems fit in the circumstances
of the case.(3)The decision of the appellate authority shall be final and
binding on both the parties, not be liable to be questioned in any Court of
Law, and be given effect to within such time as may be specified in the order
of the appellate authority.

### 32. Penalty for obstructing Inspectors.

\- Whoever wilfully obstructs an Inspector in the exercise of any power
conferred on him by or under this Act, or fails to produce on demand by an
Inspector, any register or other document in his custody kept in pursuance of
this Act or of any rules made thereunder or conceals or prevents any employee
in a beedi industrial premises from appearing before, or being examined by, an
Inspector, shall on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to five hundred
rupees or with both.

### 33. General penalty for offences.

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, any person who
contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or any rule made thereunder, or
fails to pay wages or compensation in accordance with any order of the
appellate authority passed under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 31,
shall, on conviction, be punishable for the first offence, with fine which may
extend to two hundred and fifty rupees, and for a second or any subsequent
offence with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one month or
more than six months or with fine which shall not be less than one hundred
rupees or more than five hundred rupees, or with both.(2)(a)Any employer who
fails to reinstate an employee in accordance with any order of the appellate
authority passed under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 31 shall, on
conviction, be punishable with fine which may extend to two hundred and fifty
rupees.(b)Any employer, who after having been convicted under clause (a),
continues to fail to reinstate an employee in accordance with the order
mentioned in that clause shall, on conviction, be punishable for each day
after the previous date of conviction during which he continues so to offend,
with fine which may extend to twenty rupees.(c)Any Court trying an offence
punishable under this sub-section may direct that the whole or any part of the
fine realised from the accused shall be paid by way of compensation to the
person, who, in its opinion, has been injured by such failure.(3)Any
compensation required to be paid by an employer under clause (b) of sub-
section (2) of section 31 but not paid by him shall be recoverable as delayed
wages under the provisions of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (Central Act IV
of 1936).(4)It shall be no defence in a prosecution of any person for
contravention of section 3 that any manufacturing process connected with the
production of beedi was carried on by such person himself or by any member of
his family or by any other person living with, or dependent on, such person.

### 34. Indemnity.

\- No suit, prosecution, or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under
this Act.

### 35. Cognizance of offence.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act except on
complaint by, or with the previous sanction in writing of, an Inspector.(2)No
Court below that of a Presidency Magistrate or of a Magistrate of the First
Class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 36. Central Act XX of 1946 to apply to beedi industrial premises.

\- The provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946
(Central Act XX of 1946) as in force for the time being apply to every beedi
industrial premises wherein fifty or more employees are employed or were
employed on any one day of the preceding twelve months as if such industrial
premises were an industrial establishment to which the aforesaid Act has been
applied by a notification under sub-section (3) of section 1 thereof, and as
if the employee in the said premises were a workman within the meaning of that
Act.

### 37. Central Act XFV of 1947 to apply to beedi industrial premises.

\- The provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of
1947), shall apply to matters arising in respect of all beedi industrial
premises.

### 38. Central Acts not to apply to beedi industrial premises.

\- On and from the date on which this Act comes into force, the Factories Act,
1948 (Central Act XLIII of 1948), and the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments
Act, 1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVI of 1947), shall cease to apply to beedi
industrial premises.

### 39. Rights and privileges under other laws, etc. not affected.

(1)Nothing contained in this Act shall affect any rights or privileges which
any employee working in any beedi industrial premises is entitled to on the
date on which this Act comes into force, under any other law, contract, custom
or usage, applicable to such beedi industrial premises, if such rights or
privileges are more favourable to him than those to which he would be entitled
under this Act.(2)If any question arises whether the rights or privileges
aforesaid are more favourable to any employee than those to which he would be
entitled under this Act or whether all or any of the provisions of this Act
apply to a beedi industrial premises or to a person employed therein, it shall
be decided by the Commissioner of Labour and his decision thereon shall be
final and not be liable to be questioned in any Court of law.

### 40. Power to exempt.

\- The Government may, by notification, exempt, subject to such conditions and
restrictions as they may impose,-(a)any beedi industrial premises,(b)any beedi
industry, or(c)any class of employees, from all or any of the provisions of
this Act or of any rules made thereunder.

### 41. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the purposes
of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for-(a)the terms and conditions subject to which a
licence may be granted or renewed under this Art and the fees to be paid in
respect of such licence;(b)the form of application for a licence under this
Act and the documents and plans to be submitted together with such
application;(c)submission of a monthly return by an employer to the competent
authority specifying the quantity of beedi tobacco released by the Central
Excise Department and the number of beedies manufactured by him;(d)the time
within which appeals may be presented under this Act;(e)the manner in which
the cash equivalent of the advantage accruing through the concessional sale to
an employee of foodgrains and other articles shall be computed;(f)the records
and registers that shall be maintained in beedi industrial premises for the
purpose of securing compliance with the provisions of this Act and the rules
made thereunder;(g)any matter expressly required or allowed by this Act to be
prescribed.(3)All rules made and all notifications issued under this Act,
shall, as soon as possible after they are made or issued, be placed on the
table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the word 'both the Houses
of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws and Order, 1987.] and
shall be subject to such modifications by way of amendment or repeal, as the
[the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the word 'both the Houses of the
Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws and Order, 1987.] may make
within fourteen days on which the House actually sits either in the same
session or in more than one session.

