## Union of India - Act

## The Tobacco Board Act, 1975

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Tobacco Board Act, 1975

## Act 4 of 1975

  * Published on 19 March 1975 
  * Commenced on 19 March 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 March 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tobacco Board Act, 1975ACT NO. 4 OF 1975

### 1262.

[19th March, 1975]An Act to provide for the development under the control of
the Union of the tobacco industry. BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-
sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:--

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tobacco Board Act, 1975.(2)It extends to the
whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint:Provided that
different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Act and for
different States or different parts thereof.

1.1.1976: Vide Notifin. No. S. O. 5418, dt. 17-12-1975 (except chapter
III).Sections 10 and 11 shall come into force in the States of Andhra Pradesh
and Karnataka on 28.8.1976 and Sections 12, 14 and 15 shall come into force in
the whole of India on 28.8.1976 vide Notification No. S. O. 3141, dated
20.8.1976.Sections 10 and 11 shall come into force in the State of Orissa on
22.12.1989 vide Notification No. S. O. 1067 (E), dt. 22.12.1989.Sections 10
and 11 shall come into force in the States of Maharashtra, West Bengal,
Gujarat, Tamilnadu and Uttar Pradesh on 31.5.1980 vide Notification No. S. O.
374 (E), dt. 31.5.1980.Section 13 of the Act shall come into force in the
State of Andhra Pradesh on 15.2.1985 vide Notification No. S. O. 110(E), dated
12.2.1985.  
---  
  
### 2. Declaration as to expediency of control by the Union.

It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the
Union should take under its control the tobacco industry.

### 3. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"Board" means the
Tobacco Board established under section 4:(b)"Chairman" means Chairman of the
Board;(c)"curing" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Central Excises
and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), and all its grammatical variations and cognate
expressions shall be construed accordingly;(d)"dealer" means a dealer in
tobacco;(e)"Executive Director" means the Executive Director appointed under
section 6;(f)"export" and "import" mean, respectively, taking out of, or
bringing into, India, by land, sea or air;(g)"member" means a member of the
Board and includes the Chairman;(h)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made
under this Act;(i)"registered" means, except in the expression "registered
grower". registered under Chapter III of this Act and the rules made
thereunder;(j)"registered grower" means a person who has obtained a
certificate of registration under section 10 for growing virginia tobacco.

## Chapter II  
The Tobacco Board

### 4. Establishment and constitution of the Board.

(1)With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, appoint in this behalf, there shall be established
for the purposes of this Act, a Board to be called the Tobacco Board.(2)The
Board shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having perpetual
succession and a common seal, with power to acquire, hold and dispose of
property, both movable and immovable, and to contract, and shall by the said
name sue and be sued.(3)[ The head office of the Board shall be at Guntur in
the State of Andhra Pradesh and the Board may, with the previous approval of
the Central Government, establish offices or agencies at other places in or
outside India.] [Substituted by Act 36 of 1978, Section 2, for sub-section (3)
](4)The Board shall consist of the following members, namely:--(a)a Chairman
to be appointed by the Central Government;(b)three members of Parliament, of
whom two shall be elected by the House of the People and one by the Council of
States;(c)[eight] [Substituted by Act 57 of 1985 ] members to be appointed by
the Central Government to represent respectively:--(i)the Ministry of the
Central Government dealing with Agriculture;(ii)the Ministry of the Central
Government dealing with Commerce;(iii)the Ministry of the Central Government
dealing with Finance;(iv)the Ministry of the Central Government dealing with
Industrial Development;(v)the Indian Council of Agricultural Research;(vi)the
Government of Andhra Pradesh;(via)[ the Government of Gujarat; and] [Inserted
by Section 2. Act 36 of 1978 ](vii)the Government of Karnataka;(d)two members
to be appointed by the Central Government, by rotation in the alphabetical
order, to represent the Governments of tobacco-growing States [other than the
State of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Kanataka] [ Substituted by Section 2, Act
36 of 1978., for " other than the States of Andhra Pradesh and
Karnataka".];(e)not more than [ten members] [Substituted and Inserted by Act
57 of 1985, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985) ] to be appointed by the Central
Government from amongst growers of tobacco, dealers and exporters (including
packers) of tobacco and tobacco products, manufacturers of tobacco products
and from amongst persons who, in the opinion of the Central Government, are
experts in tobacco marketing or agricultural economics:[Provided that the
number of members appointed under this clause from amongst the growers of
tobacco shall not exceed six.] [ Substituted and Inserted by Act 57 of 1985,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985)](f)[ the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the
Government of India, Department of Rural Development, ex officio; [Substituted
and Inserted by Act 57 of 1985, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985) ](g)the Executive
Director, ex-officio.](4A)[ It is hereby declared that the office of member of
the Board shall not disqualify its holder for being chosen as, or for being, a
member of either House of Parliament.] [Substituted and Inserted by Act 57 of
1985, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985) ](5)The Board shall elect, from amongst its
members, a Vice-Chairman who shall exercise such of the powers and perform
such of the functions of the Chairman as may be prescribed or as may be
delegated to him by the Chairman.(6)The term of office of the members and the
manner of filling vacancies among, and the procedure to be followed in the
discharge of their functions by, the members shall be such as may be
prescribed.(7)[Any officer] [ Substituted and Inserted by Act 57 of 1985,
Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985)] of the Central Government (not being a member of
the Board) as is deputed by the Central Government in this behalf, shall have
the right to attend the meetings of the Board and take part in the proceedings
thereof, but shall not have the right to vote.(8)The Board may associate with
itself in such manner and for such purposes as may be prescribed, any persons
whose assistance or advice it may desire in complying with any of the
provisions of this Act and a person so associated shall have the right to take
part in the discussions of the Board relevant to the purposes for which he has
been associated, but shall not have the right to vote.(9)No act or proceeding
of the Board or any committee appointed by it under section 7 shall be
invalidated merely by reason of--(a)any vacancy in, or any defect in the
constitution of, the Board or such committee; or(b)any defect in the
appointment of a person acting as a member of the Board or such committee;
or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the Board or such committee not
affecting the merits of the case.

### 5. Salary and allowances and other conditions of service of Chairman.

The Chairman shall be entitled to such salary and allowances and such
conditions of service in respect of leave, pension, provident fund and other
matters as may, from time to time, be fixed by the Central Government.

### 6. Officers of the Board and other staff.

(1)The Central Government shall appoint an Executive Director to exercise such
powers and perform such duties under the Chairman as may be prescribed or as
may be delegated to him by the Chairman.(2)The Central Government shall
appoint a Secretary to the Board to exercise such powers and perform such
duties under the Chairman as may be prescribed or as may be delegated to him
by the Chairman.(3)The Executive Director and the Secretary shall be entitled
to such salaries and allowances and such conditions of service in respect of
leave, pension, provident fund and other matters as may from time to time be
fixed by the Central Government.(4)Subject to such control, restrictions and
conditions (including conditions as to appointment of the officers and other
employees of the Tobacco Export Promotion Council, in the event of the said
Council being wound up) as may be prescribed, the Board may appoint such other
officers and employees as may be necessary for the efficient performance of
its functions.(5)The Chairman, of the Executive Director, the Secretary and
other officers and employees of the Board shall not undertake any work
unconnected with their duties under this Act except with the permission of the
Central Government.

### 7. Committees of the Board.

(1)The Board may appoint such committees as may be necessary for the efficient
discharge of its duties and performance of its functions under this Act.(2)The
Board shall have the power to co-opt as members of any committee appointed
under sub-section (1) such number of person who are not members of the Board
as it may think fit and the persons so co-opted shall have the right to attend
the meetings of the committee and take part in the proceedings of the
committee but shall not have the right to vote.

### 8. Functions of the Board.

(1)It shall be the duty of the Board to promote, by such measures as it thinks
fit, the development under the control of the Central Government of the
tobacco industry.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of
sub-section (1), the measures referred to therein may provide for--(a)[
regulating the production and curing of virginia tobacco having regard to the
following factors, namely:-- [Substituted by Act 57 of 1985, Section 3 (w.e.f.
1.12.1985). ](i)the demand for virginia tobacco in India and abroad;(ii)the
suitability of land for growing virginia tobacco;(iii)the differences in soil
characteristics and agro-climatic factors in different regions of the country
where virginia tobacco is grown and the effect thereof on the quality and
quantity of virginia tobacco produced in those regions;(iv)the marketability
of different types of virginia tobacco;(v)the need for rotation of crops;
and(vi)the nature of the holdings of the growers of virginia tobacco whether
owned or leased;](b)keeping a constant watch on the virginia tobacco market,
both in India and abroad, and ensuring that the growers get a fair and
remunerative price for the same and that there are no wide fluctuations in the
prices of the commodity;(c)maintenance and improvement of existing markets,
and development of new markets outside India for Indian virginia tobacco and
its products and devising of marketing strategy in consonance with demand for
the commodity outside India, including group marketing under limited brand
names;(cc)[ establishment by the Board of auction platforms, with the previous
approval of the Central Government, for the sale of virginia tobacco by
registered growers or curers, and functioning of the Board as an auctioneer at
auction platforms established by or registered with it subject to such
conditions as may be specified by the Central Government;] [ Inserted by Act
36 of 1978, Section 3.](d)recommending to Central Government the minimum
prices which may be fixed for purposes of export of virginia tobacco with a
view to avoiding unhealthy competition amongst the exporters;(e)regulating in
other respects virginia tobacco marketing in India and export of virginia
tobacco having due regard to the interests of growers, manufacturers and
dealers and the nation;(f)propagating information useful to the growers,
dealers and exporters (including packers) of virginia tobacco and
manufacturers of virginia tobacco products and others concerned with virginia
tobacco and products thereof;(g)purchasing virginia tobacco from growers when
the same is considered necessary or expedient for protecting the interests of
the growers and disposal of the same in India or abroad as and when considered
appropriate;(h)promoting the grading of tobacco at the level of
growers;(i)sponsoring, assisting, co-ordinating or encouraging scientific,
technological and economic research for the promotion of tobacco
industry;(j)such other matters as may be prescribed.(3)Without prejudice to
the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1) and subject to priority
being given to matters specified in sub-section (2), the measures referred to
in sub-section (1) may also provide in relation to tobacco, other than
virginia tobacco, for all or any of the matters specified in clauses (c) to
(g) of sub-section (2) and for this purpose any reference in those clauses to
virginia tobacco shall be construed as including a reference to tobacco other
than virginia tobacco.(4)The Board shall perform its functions under this
section in accordance with and subject to such rules as may be made by the
Central Government and such rules may in particular make provisions for
ensuring that the Board functions in close liaison with Union agencies,
institutions and authorities concerned with the tobacco industry (including
growing of tobacco) and avoids duplication of effort.

### 9. Dissolution of the Board.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette and for
reasons to be specified therein, direct that the Board shall be dissolved from
such date and for such period as may be specified in the notification:Provided
that before issuing any such notification, the Central Government shall give a
reasonable opportunity to the Board to make representations against the
proposed dissolution and shall consider the representations, if any, of the
Board.(2)When the Board is dissolved under the provisions of sub-section
(1),--(a)all members, notwithstanding that their term of office has not
expired, shall, from the date of dissolution, vacate their offices as such
members;(b)all powers and duties of the Board shall, during the period of
dissolution, be exercised and performed by such person or persons as the
Central Government may appoint in this behalf;(c)all funds and other
properties vested in the Board shall, during the period of dissolution, vest
in the Central Government; and(d)as soon as the period of dissolution expires,
the Board shall be reconstituted in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.

## Chapter III  
Regulation Of Production And Disposal Of Virginia Tobacco

### 10. Registration of growers of virginia tobacco.

(1)No person shall grow virginia tobacco except under, and in accordance with,
the conditions of a certificate of registration obtained from the Board in
accordance with the rules made under this Act.(2)In granting or refusing a
certificate of registration, the Board shall have regard to the demand for
virginia tobacco in India and abroad, and the suitability of the land in
relation to which the certificate is applied for and such other factors as
may, having regard to the needs of the virginia tobacco industry, be
prescribed.(3)A certificate of registration granted in pursuance of this
section shall be valid for such period as may be prescribed.(4)Every
application for such certificate of registration shall be accompanied by such
fees (not exceeding one rupee for 0.4 hectare of the land in relation to which
such application has been made) as may be prescribed.

### 10A. [ Registration of growers of virginia tobacco seedlings for
commercial purposes. [Inserted by Act 57 of 1985, Section 4 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985)
]

(1)No person shall grow virginia tobacco seedlings for commercial purposes
unless he registers himself as a nursery grower with the Board in accordance
with the rules made under this Act.Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it
is hereby declared that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to the growing
by a registered grower of any virginia tobacco seedlings for his own use.(2)No
registered nursery grower shall sell or cause to be sold any virginia tobacco
seedlings grown by him to any person other than a registered grower.]

### 11. Registration of curers of virginia tobacco.

No person other than a registered curer shall cure or undertake the curing of
virginia tobacco unless he registers himself as a curer with the Board in
accordance with the rules made under this Act.

### 11A. [ Registration of processors and manufacturers of virginia tobacco,
etc. [Inserted by Section 5, Act 57 of 1985 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985). ]

No person shall process virginia tobacco or manufacture products therefrom
unless he registers himself as such processor or manufacturer, as the case may
be with the Board in accordanec with the rules made under this Act.

### 11B. Licences to be obtained for grading work and construction of barns,
etc.

No person shall--(i)take up grading work relating to virginia tobacco for
commercial purposes; or(ii)take up the construction and operation of a barn,
unless he obtains a licence from the Board in accordance with the rules made
under this Act.Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section,--(i)"barn"
means a building or structure with a roof of zinc sheets or tiles having flue
pipes, furnace and tiers used for flue curing of tobacco leaves;(ii)"grading
work" means separating tobacco leaves into specific grades on the basis of
plant position, maturity, colour, body and blemish and in accordance with such
specifications as may be prescribed.]

### 12. Registration of exporters, packers, auctioneers and dealers.

No person shall export tobacco or any tobacco products or function as a
packer, auctioneer of, or dealer in, tobacco unless he registers himself with
the Board in accordance with the rules made under this Act.

### 13. Virginia tobacco to be sold at registered auction platforms.

No registered grower or curer shall sell or cause to be sold virginia tobacco
elsewhere than at an auction platform registered with the Board in accordance
with the rules made under this Act [or established by the Board under this
Act] [ Inserted by Act 36 of 1978, Section 4.].

### 13A. [ Duty of registered dealers and exporters to purchase at auction
platforms, etc. [Inserted by Section 6, Act 57 of 1985 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985). ]

No registered dealer or registered exporter shall purchase or cause to be
purchased virginia tobacco elsewhere--(a)than at an auction platform
registered with the Board in accordance with the rules made under this Act or
established by the Board under this Act; or(b)than from any other registered
dealer or a registered grower or curer:Provided that in relation to any State
in which the provisions of section 13 are not in force, the condition
specified under clause (a) shall not apply.

### 13B. Duty or buyers of virginia Tobacco at ploaces other than auction
platforms to refrain from certain unfair practices.

Every dealer who purchases virginia tobacco in any State in which the
provisions of section 13 are not in force,--(a)shall pay the full price for
the whole quantity of virginia tobacco so purchased by him at the rate at
which he agreed to purchase such tobacco and shall refrain from claiming any
discount in the weight or other deductions in weight thereof or any deductions
from the price as calculated in accordance with such rate;(b)shall pay the
full price for virginia tobacco so purchased by him as calculated in
accordance with the provisions of clause (a) as expeditiously as possible and
in any case within such reasonable time as may be specified in this behalf by
the Board; and(c)shall refrain from having recourse to any practices which the
Board may, having regard to the need for protection of persons selling
virginia tobacco in such State and all other relevant considerations, specify
to be unfair practices.]

### 14. Application, cancellation, fees and other matters relating to
registration.

The form of application and the form of certificate of registration under
section 10, the form of application [for registration of nursery growers for
the purposes of section 10A, for registration of curers for the purposes of
section 11, for registration of processors and manufacturers for the purposes
of section 11A, for obtaining licences for taking up grading work or
construction and operation of barns under section 11B] [ Substituted by
Section 7, Act 57 of 1985 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985).], for registration of exporters,
packers or auctioneers of, or dealers in, tobacco, for the purposes of section
12, and for registration of auction platforms for the purposes of section 13,
the time within which and the manner in which such applications shall be made,
the fees payable on such applications, the particulars to be specified
therein, the principles and the procedure to be followed in granting and
cancelling certificates of registration or the registration of auction
platforms or, as the case may be, [the registration as nursery growers,
curers, processors, exporters, packers or auctioneers of, or dealers in,
virginia tobacco or as manufacturer of the products of virginia tobacco or in
granting licences under section 11B, the returns to be submitted and the
registers to be maintained by registered growers, nursery growers, curers,
processors, exporters, packers or auctioneers of, or dealers in, virginia
tobacco or the registered manufacturers of the products of virginia tobacco or
the persons licensed under section 11B and the registers to be kept by the
Board shall be such as may be prescribed] [Substituted by Act 57 of 1985,
Section 7 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985) ]

### 14A. [ Power to levy fees. [ Inserted by Act 36 of 1978, Section 5. ]

(1)Where virginia tobacco is sold at any auction platform established by the
Board under this Act, it shall be competent for the Board or for any officer
of the Board authorised by it in this behalf to levy fees, for the services
rendered by the Board in relation to such sale, at such rate not exceeding two
per cent. of the value of such tobacco as the Central Government may, from
time to time, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.(2)The fees
levied under sub-section (1) shall be collected by the Board or such officer,
equally from the seller of the virginia tobacco and the purchaser of such
tobacco, in such manner as may be prescribed.]

### 15. Power of inspection.

The Board may authorise any of its members, officers or other employees to
inspect in such manner as may be prescribed any land or premises to verify the
accuracy of any particulars mentioned in any application or any return
referred to in section 14.

## Chapter IV  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 16. Grants and loans by the Central Government.

The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law
in this behalf, pay to the Board by way of grants or loans such sums of money
as the Central Government may think fit for being utilised for the purposes of
this Act.

### 17. Constitution of the Tobacco Fund.

(1)There shall be formed a Fund to be called the Tobacco Fund and there shall
be credited thereto--(a)the fees levied and collected under this Act or the
rules made thereunder;(b)any sums of money paid or any loans granted by the
Central Government for the purposes of this Act;(c)any grants or loans that
may be made by any person for the purposes of this Act;(d)the sums, if any,
realised by the Board in carrying out the measures referred to in section
8.(2)The Fund shall be applied--(a)for meeting the cost of the measures
referred to in section 8;(b)for meeting the salaries, allowances and other
remuneration of the officers and other employees of the Board;(c)for meeting
the other administrative expenses of the Board;(d)for repayment of any loans.

### 18. Borrowing powers of the Board.

Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf, the Board shall have the
power to borrow on the security of the Tobacco Fund or any other asset for
carrying out the purposes of this Act.

### 18A. [ Writing off of losses. [Inserted by Act 57 of 1985, Section 8
(w.e.f. 1.12.1985)]

Subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Central Government,
where the Board is of opinion that any amount due to, or any loss, whether of
money or of property, incurred by, the Board is irrecoverable, the Board may,
with the previous approval of the Central Government, sanction the writing off
finally of the said amount or loss:Provided that no such approval of the
Central Government shall be necessary where such irrecoverable amount or loss
does not exceed in any individual case and in the aggregate in any year such
amounts as may be prescribed.]

### 19. Accounts and audit.

(1)The Board shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and
prepare an annual statement of accounts, including the [income and expenditure
account] [Substituted by Section 9, ibid. (w.e.f. 1.12.1985) ] and the
balance-sheet in such form as may be prescribed by the Central Government in
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.(2)The accounts
of the Board shall be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India
at such intervals as may be specified by him and any expenditure incurred in
connection with such audit shall be payable by the Board to the Comptroller
and Auditor-General.(3)The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any
person appointed by him in connection with the audit of the accounts of the
Board shall have the same rights and privileges and authority in connection
with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General has in connection with
the audit of Government accounts and, in particular, shall have the right to
demand the production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other
documents and papers and to inspect any of the offices of the Board.(4)The
accounts of the Board as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of
India or any other person appointed by him in this behalf together with the
audit report thereon shall be forwarded annually to the Central Government and
that Government shall cause the same to be laid before each House of
Parliament.

## Chapter V  
Control By Central Government

### 20. Power to prohibit or control import and export of tobacco and tobacco
products.

(1)The Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette,
make provision for prohibiting, restricting or otherwise controlling the
import or export of tobacco and tobacco products, either generally or in
specified classes of cases.(2)All tobacco and tobacco products to which any
order under sub-section (1) applies, shall be deemed to be goods of which the
import or export has been prohibited under section 11 of the Customs Act, 1962
(52 of 1962), and all the provisions of that Act shall have effect
accordingly.(3)If any person contravenes any order made under sub-section (1),
he shall, without prejudice to any confiscation or penalty to which he may, be
liable under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), as applied
by sub-section (2), be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

### 20A. [ Power of Central Government to authorise purchase of virginia
tobacco. [ Inserted by Act 57 of 1985, Section 10 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985)]

Without prejudice to the provisions of clause (g) of sub-section (2) of
section 8 and notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of
this Act, if the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary or
expedient so to do, it may, by order in writing and subject to such conditions
and limitations as may be specified in the order, authorise any body or other
agency to purchase virginia tobacco from the growers and dispose of the same
in India or abroad.]

### 21. Directions by Central Government.

The Board shall carry out such directions as may be issued to it from time to
time by the Central Government for the efficient administration of this Act.

### 22. Returns and reports.

(1)The Board shall furnish to the Central Government at such time and in such
form and manner as may be prescribed or as the Central Government may direct,
such returns and statements and such particulars in regard to any proposed or
existing programme for the promotion and development of the tobacco industry,
as the Central Government may, from time to time, require.(2)Without prejudice
to the provisions of sub-section (1), the Board shall, as soon as possible
after the end of each financial year, submit to the Central Government a
report in such form and before such date, as may be prescribed, giving a true
and full account of its activities, policy and programmes during the previous
financial year.(3)A copy of the report received under sub-section (2) shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is received, before each House of Parliament.

## Chapter VI  
Miscellaneous

### 23. Penalties.

Any person who, being required under this Act to furnish any return fails to
furnish such return or furnishes a return containing any particular which is
false and which he knows to be false or does not believe to be true, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.

### 24. Penalties for obstructing a member, officer or other employee of the
Board in the discharge of his duties and for failure to produce books and
records.

Any person who--(a)obstructs any member or any officer or other employee of
the Board or any other person in the exercise of any power conferred, or in
the discharge of any duty imposed, on him by or under this Act; or(b)having
control over or custody of any account book or other record, fails to produce
such book or record when required to do so by or under this Act, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or
with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 25. Other penalties.

Whoever contravenes or attempts to contravene or abets the contravention of
the provisions of this Act [or of any rules or regulations made there under]
[Substituted by Act 57 of 1985, Section 11 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985). ] other than
the provisions, punishment for the contravention whereof has been provided for
in section 20 or section 23 or section 24, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may [extend to two years, or with fine which may
extend to five thousand rupees, or with both] [Substituted by Act 57 of 1985,
Section 11 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985). ] and in the case of a continuing contravention
with an additional fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which such contravention continues after conviction for the first such
contravention.

### 26. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.-- For the
purposes of this section--(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a
firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 27. Jurisdiction of court.

No court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Magistrate of the
first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 28. Previous sanction of Central Government.

No prosecution for any offence punishable under this Act shall be instituted
except with the previous sanction of the Central Government.

### 29. Protection of action taken in good faith.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Central
Government, or the Board or any committee appointed by it, or any member of
the Board or such committee, or any officer or other employee of the Central
Government or of the Board or any agent of or any other person authorised by
the Board, for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done
under this Act or the rules made thereunder.

### 30. Suspension of operation of Act.

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that circumstances have arisen
rendering it necessary that certain of the restrictions imposed by this Act
should cease to be imposed or if it considers it necessary or expedient so to
do in the public interest, the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, suspend or relax to a specified extent, for such period as
may be specified in the notification, the operation of all or any of the
provisions of this Act, in all or any of the territories to which this Act
extends.(2)Where the operation of any provision of this Act has, under sub-
section (1), been suspended or relaxed, such suspension or relaxation may, at
any time while this Act remains in force, be removed by the Central Government
by notification in the Official Gazette.(3)Every notification issued under
this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before each
House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the notification or both Houses agree that the notification
should not be issued, the notification shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the previous
operation of the notification.

### 31. Application of other laws not barred.

The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of,
the provisions of any other law for the time being in force.

### 32. Power of Central Government to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:--(a)the powers and functions of
the Vice-Chairman of the Board;(b)the term of office and other conditions of
service of members, the manner of filling vacancies among, and the procedure
to be followed in the discharge of their functions by, members;(c)the powers
which may be exercised and the duties which shall be performed by the
Executive Director and the Secretary;(d)the circumstances in which and the
authority by which a member may be removed;(e)the holding of a minimum number
of meetings of the Board every year;(f)the procedure to be followed at the
meetings of the Board for the conduct of business and the number of members
which shall form a quorum at a meeting;(g)the maintenance by the Board of
records of business transacted by the Board and the submission of copies
thereof to the Central Government;(ga)[ the specifications with regard to
grading work referred to in section 11B;] [ Inserted by Act 57 of 1985,
Section 12 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985).](h)the matters referred to in section 14;(hh)[
the manner of collection of fees under sub-section (2) of section 14A;]
[Inserted by Act 36 of 1978, Section 6. ](i)the powers of the Board, its
Chairman, the Executive Director and committees of the Board with respect to
the incurring of expenditure;(j)the conditions subject to which the Board may
incur expenditure outside India;(ja)[ the amounts for the purposes of the
proviso to section 18A;] [Inserted by Act 57 of 1985, Section 12 (w.e.f.
1.12.1985). ](k)the preparation of budget estimates of receipts and
expenditure of the Board and the authority by which the estimates are to be
sanctioned;(l)the form and manner in which the accounts should be maintained
by the Board;(m)the deposit of the funds of the Board in banks and the
investment of such funds;(n)the conditions to be observed by the Board in
borrowing money;(o)the conditions subject to which, and the manner in which,
contracts may be entered into by or on behalf of the Board;(p)the additional
matters in respect of which the Board may undertake measures in the discharge
of its functions;(q)the remuneration and other allowances payable to the
person or persons referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section
9;(r)the form and manner of, and the particulars to be contained in, any
returns or reports to be made to the Board under this Act;(s)the collection of
any information or statistics in respect of tobacco or tobacco products;(t)any
other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed by, or provided for by
rules under, this Act.(3)Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is
in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule, or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 33. Power to make regulations.

(1)The Board may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act and the rules
made thereunder for enabling it to discharge its functions under this
Act.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:--(a)the procedure to be followed at meetings of the committees
appointed by the Board and the number of members which shall form a quorum at
a meeting;(b)the delegation to the Chairman, members, Executive Director,
Secretary or other officers of the Board, of any of the powers and duties of
the Board under this Act;(c)the travelling and other allowances payable to
persons associated under sub-section (8) of section 4 or co-opted under sub-
section (2) of section 7;(d)the pay and allowances and leave and other
conditions of service of officers (other than those appointed by the Central
Government) and other employees of the Board;(e)the maintenance of the
accounts of the Board;(f)the maintenance of the registers and other records of
the Board and its various committees;(g)the appointment by the Board of agents
to discharge, on its behalf, any of its functions;(h)the persons by whom, and
the manner in which, payments, deposits and investments may be made on behalf
of the Board.(i)[ the time within which full price for virginia tobacco shall
be paid under clause (b), and the unfair practices for the purposes of clause
(c), of section 13B.] [ Inserted by Act 57 of 1985, Section 13 (w.e.f.
1.12.1985)](3)No regulation made by the Board shall have effect until it has
been approved by the Central Government and published in the Official Gazette,
and the Central Government, in approving a regulation, may make any change
therein which appears to it to be necessary.(4)The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, cancel any regulation which it has
approved and, thereupon, the regulation shall cease to have effect.(5)[ Every
regulation made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it
is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the regulation or both Houses agree that the
regulation should not be made, the regulation shall thereafter have effect
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that regulation.] [ Inserted by
Act 57 of 1985, Section 13 (w.e.f. 1.12.1985)]

