## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-CINEMAS-REGULATION-RULES-1957 of 1957

  * Published on 19 January 1957 
  * Commenced on 19 January 1957 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 January 1957.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957Published vide Notification
G.O.P. No. 155, Home, dated 19th January, 1957In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 10(1) and (2) of the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Act,
1955 (Tamil Nadu Act IX of 1955), and in supersession of (a) the Tamil Nadu
Cinematograph Rules 1933, published with the late Law (General) Department
Notification No. 73, dated the 5th December 1933, at pages 193-198 of Part I
of "the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 30th January 1934, as subsequently
amended, (b) the Tamil Nadu (Procedure for Approval of Films) Rides, 1956
(published with the Home Department Notification SRO No. 9 of 1956, dated the
30th May 1956, at pages 224-226 of Rules Supplement to Part I of the Fort St.
George Gazette, dated the 30th May 1956) and (c) of the rules published with
Home Department Notification SRO No. 13 of 1956, dated the 30th May 1956 at
pages 223-224 of Rules Supplement to Part I of the Fort St. George Gazette,
dated the 30th May 1956, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following
rules:-

## Part I – A

General

### 1.

These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957.

### 2.

(1)These rules shall apply to all the existing cinema premises in the State of
Tamil Nadu and to those which come into existence after the publication of
these rules in the Fort St.George Gazette.(2)[ These rules shall apply to all
cinema premises in the Kanyakumari District and the Shencottah taluk of the
Tirunelveli District existing on the 5th March 1958 and those which come into
existence after the said date.] [Inserted G.O. Ms. No. 494 Home, dated the
27th February 1958.](3)[ These rules shall also apply to all cinema premises
in the territories specified in the Second Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh and
Tamil Nadu (Alteration of Boundaries) Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of 1959) and
to those which come into existence after the 20th February 1963.] [Inserted
G.O. Ms. No. 547, Home, dated the 14th February 1963.]

### 3.

In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context-(a)"Act" means the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1955 (Tamil
Nadu Act IX of 1955);(b)[* * *] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 903, dated the 25th
March 1980];(c)"auditorium" means the portion of licensed place in which
accommodation is provided for the public to view the cinematograph
exhibition;(d)"Central Film Advisory Board" means the Film Advisory Board
constituted under the resolution of the Government of India in the Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting No. 1/51/54-F, dated the 2nd February
1955;(e)"enclosure" means the portion of the licensed place in which
cinematograph apparatus is erected;(f)"Form" means form annexed to these
rules;(g)"local authority" means-(i)[(a) in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted
by G.O. Ms. No. 3682, Home, dated the October 16, 1965.], the Council of the
Municipal Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.];](b)[ in the city of Madurai, the Municipal
Council of the Municipal Corporation of Madurai.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No.
2908 Home, dated the November 8, 1973.](ii)in an area in a District, the
Municipal Council or the Township Committee or the Panchayat Union Council
having the jurisdiction over the area:Provided that where there is no
Panchayat functioning, the Panchayat Union Council having the jurisdiction
over the area shall be deemed to be the Local authority;(gg)[ "Multiplex"
means the building wherein a minimum of two theatres together with or without
multi activities on commercial basis or with Malls;] [Inserted by SRO
A-17/2009, dated 20.5.2009, w.r.e.f. 1.1.2007.](h)"permanent building" means a
building which is constructed for permanent use with stone [* * *] [Omitted by
G O. Ms. No. 1364 Cinema dated the 3rd August 1992.] brick, mortar, cement or
other non-inflammable material.Explanation. - Where the floor, roof, side
walls, galleries and staircases of a building are made of non-inflammable
materials, the building shall, for the purpose of these rules, be deemed to be
a permanent building; and(i)"temporary building" means a building which is not
a permanent building.

### 4.

If any question arises as to the interpretation of these rules otherwise than
in connection with the prosecution for an offence, the question shall be
referred to the Government whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 5.

[(1) The rules in Parts I-A, IV, V, VI and VII and Forms C, D, E and F printed
in large type, together with the name and address of the licensee affixed
thereto, shall be kept during public entertainment always pasted in some
conspicuous place at the principal entrance at a height of not more than 1.25
metres from the floor so that any person entering the licensed premises may
acquaint himself with such rules and, on noticing any breach of them may
report the same to the licensing authority.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.
658, Home, dated the 15th March 1958.](2)[ A copy of the Cinema Operator's
Manual published by the Board of Examiners for Cinema Operators constituted by
the Government shall be kept in the licensed premises.] [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 2822, Home, dated the 7th October 1959.]

### 6.

No person other than company or association shall be entitled to obtain or
hold any licence under the [Act] [Inserted by Notification No. SRO A-77/83.]
or a no objection certificate under these rules unless such person has
attained the age of 20 years.

### 7.

The licensee shall comply with such of the provisions of the [Indian
Electricity Act, 1910] [This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as the
Electricity Act, 2003 (Central Act 36 of 2003).], and of the rules made
thereunder as are applicable to the premises. In cases where the notice
referred to in section 30 of the said Act has to be given to the District
Collector or the Commissioner of Police, no licence shall be granted until
such notice has been given and the licensing authority has informed the
[Electrical Inspector] [Substituted by G.O. No 1309, Home, dated the 31st
August 1995.] or the decision to issue the licence.

### 8.

Any Police Officer not below the rank of a Sub-Inspector, any Fire Officers
not below the rank of a [Station Officer, any Health Officer] [Substituted by
G O. Ms. No. 761. S.W. dated the 18th October 1969.] [or Sanitary Officer, the
Commissioner of the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 238,
Home, dated the 28th January 1964.], or Assistant Commissioners or Assistant
Health Officer of the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).], Municipal Commissioners, Executive Officers of Townships], any
Magistrate having jurisdiction over the area, the [Electrical Inspector]
[Substituted by G.O. No. 1309, Home, dated the 31st August 1995.] or his
representative [not below the rank of Junior Electrical Inspector]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1081, Home, dated the 12th April 1972.], the
licensing authority or his representative and the [Public Works Department
Authority concerned] [Substituted G.O.Ms. No. 1357, Home, dated the 8th
September 1993.], or any person authorised by him, [an officer of the
Directorate of Information and Public Relations not below the rank of an
Information and Public Relations Officer] [Inserted by G.O. Ms No. 1716, Home,
dated the 6th July 1982.] may enter at any time any place licensed or proposed
to be licensed under the Act for the purpose of satisfying himself that the
provisions of the Act and the rules there under are carried out correctly by
the license.[In cases where any defect is pointed out by the Chief Electrical
Inspector or his representatives, it should be got rectified by the licensee
within a reasonable time and the licensing authority should not renew the
licence in such cases unless the defects are rectified.] [Inserted by G.O Ms.
No. 1081, Home, dated the 12th April 1972.]In case of any breach, the
inspecting authorities should draw the attention of the licensing authority
for necessary action.[* * *] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No.1716, Home, dated the 6th
July 1982.]

### 9.

The licence and the plan and description attached thereto shall be produced on
demand by any police officer not below the rank of a Sub-Inspector or by the
licensing authority or by the Chief Electrical Inspector [* * *] [Omitted by G
O. Ms. 1357, Home, the 8th September 1993.] or by any persons authorised by
them in this behalf [or by the Public Works Department Authority concerned.]
[Added by G.O. Ms. No.1357, Home, dated the 8th September 1993.]

### 10.

The licensee, his servants and agents shall comply with all orders issued by
the Chief Electrical Inspector, the licensing authority or police officers
acting on their behalf, from time to time, or as occasion arises for the
safety or convenience of the public or for the preservation of order or the
maintenance of peace. The licensing authority may, if circumstances so
require, impose safeguards for the purpose in addition to those laid down in
these rules.

### 11.

[(1) The enclosure shall be in-charge of an operator holding a licence in Form
"G" granted under, and in accordance with, the regulations in Appendix II by
the Chief Electrical Inspector on the strength of a competency certificate in
Form "H" issued under, and in accordance, with the regulations in Appendix III
by the Board of Examiners constituted by the Government.] [Substituted by G O.
Ms. No. 238, Home dated the 28th January 1964.][The Operator shall be present
in the enclosure during the whole period of operation of the machine.] [Added
by G.O. Ms. No. 601, Home dated 28th February 1959 and subsequently amended by
G.O. Ms. No. 2269, Home dated the 3rd July 1980.] There shall be two licensed
cinema operators in each of the permanent and semi-permanent theatres
exhibiting a minimum of three shows per day and in the case of a permanent or
semi-permanent theatre, which exhibits more than four shows per day the number
of licensed operators shall be three.[It would be sufficient to have two
operators in theaters running four shows per day.] [Letter No. 17815 - Cinemas
(79-2 (Home), 27th February 1980 addressed to the C.E.I.G. Madras.](2)The
operator shall satisfy himself before the commencement of each performance
that all cables, leads, connections and resistances as also the fire
extinguishing appliances in the enclosure are in good working order.(3)Such
number of persons as may be necessary shall be specially appointed to be in-
charge of the fire-extinguishing appliances in the auditorium during every
performance. [Such persons need not be employed exclusively for looking after
the fire appliances, but they must not be given any other work during an
exhibition which would take them away from the building or otherwise prevent
them from being immediately available in case of danger or alarm of fire. The
person so appointed shall wear a badge on his arm depicting the word "FIRE"
during the exhibition.] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 3171, Home, dated the 15th
December 1976.](4)The licensee shall report to the Chief Electrical Inspector
the name and licence number of the operator together with his letter of
consent and any change in personnel.

### 12.

(1)Smoking shall not be permitted within the enclosure or within the
auditorium.(2)No unauthorized person shall be allowed to enter the
enclosure.(3)No inflammable article shall, unnecessarily, be taken into, or
allowed to, remain in the enclosure.(4)[ The licensee shall keep the cinema
buildings and equipment insured against the risk of fire so that the cinema
theatre in run without fire hazards.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 773, Home,
(Cinemas) Department, dated 5th May 1975.](5)[ The licensee shall put up at
prominent places in, and immediately outside, any projection or rewinding room
or in any room in which the films is stored or in which electrical batteries
are installed or charged, notice indicating that "smoking" is strictly
prohibited.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3171, Home dated the 15th December,
1976.]

### 13.

(1)If the applicant for the licence is the owner of the site, building and
equipment, he shall produce to the licensing authority the necessary records
relating to his ownership and possession thereof. If he is not the owner, he
shall, to the satisfaction of the licensing authority, produce documentary
evidence to show that he is in lawful possession of the site, building and
equipment.(2)If the land for which the applicant requires a no objection
certificate is under the jurisdiction of the Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments Department, the Licensee shall produce to the licensing authority
along with his application a letter of permission from the Commissioner, Hindu
Religious and Charitable Endowments [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] specifically permitting the leasing out of the land to the
applicant. In the absence of such a letter of prior permission, the licensing
authority shall reject the application for no objection certificate.

### 14.

[(1) There shall be no restriction in the grant of licence to permanent and
travelling cinemas on the basis of population.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.1326,
Home (Cinema-1), 6th September 1995.](2)The restrictions in respect of
distance between cinemas shall be as specified below:-(a)A travelling cinema
in any place shall not be allowed with in a distance of [1.609] [Substituted
by G.O. Ms. No. 233, Home (Cinema-1), dated the 19th March 2002.] km of the
nearest permanent cinema located in the same local area or in the adjacent
local area.Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause "local area" means
the area within in the jurisdiction of a local authority:Provided that the
Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, permit a travelling
cinema within the distance specified in this clause from the nearest permanent
cinema:Provided further that a travelling cinema may be allowed to complete
its full term of five years even if a permanent cinema comes up within the
distance specified in this clause;(b)The distance between any two travelling
cinemas shall not be less than 0.402 km:Provided that the Government may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, permit a travelling cinema within the
distance specified in this clause from the nearest travelling cinema.(c)There
shall be no restriction in regard to the distance between one permanent cinema
and another permanent cinema.(3)The distance between cinemas in any place or
in adjacent places shall be reckoned along the shortest pathway, lane, street,
road or any other route connecting the cinemas which is generally used by the
members of the public.(4)[ The distance between any two cinemas shall be
reckoned from the cabin room of one cinema to the cabin room of another.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 586, Social Welfare, dated the 23rd August 1969.]

### 14A. [ [Rule 14-A was inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 991, Home, dated the 29th
July 1998.]

(1)An applicant for the licence or the licensee may apply to the licensing
authority' for exemption of any of the provisions of the Act or any provisions
of these rules.(2)A fee of [Rs. 7,500 (Rupees seven thousand and five hundred
only)] for permanent and semi-permanent theatres and fee of [Rs. 4,000 (Rupees
four thousand only)] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 1054, Home, dated the 10th
July 2007.] for travelling cinemas shall be paid and a Treasury receipt for
the amount of the fee shall also be submitted along with the application.(3)On
receipt of such application, the licensing authority shall send the report in
Form "A" for exemption from any of the provisions of the Act or any of these
rules.]Part-I-BProcedure for Approval of Films

### 15.

The rules in this Part and rule 3 in Part I shall apply to the procedure for
approval of films for the purpose of section 6 of the Act.

### 16.

[The Director of Information and Public Relation, Tamil Nadu shall be the
advising authority for the purposes of advising the Government in the matter
of approval of films under section 6 of the Act.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
903, Home, dated the 25th March 1980.]

### 17. and 25.

[* * *] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 903, Home, dated the 25th March 1980.]

### 26.

Such films as have been or may be approved by the Central Government to be
scientific films, films intended for educational purposes, films dealing with
news and current events or documentary films for the purpose of directions
under sub-section (4) of section 12 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 Central Act
(XXXVII of 1952), and corresponding provisions in other State Cinemas
(Regulation) Acts are hereby declared to be films approved by the Government
within the meaning of section 6 of the Act and rules 27 to 34 shall not apply
to such films.

### 27. [ [Rules 27, 28 and 29 substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 903, Home, dated
the 25tli March 1980.]

Any person, firm, organisation or Government desirous of having any of his,
its/or their films approved by the Government of Tamil Nadu under section 6 of
the Act shall send an application in writing to the Director of Information
and Public Relations, Tamil Nadu stating the titles of the film and the source
from which it can be obtained by exhibitors and such other particulars as may
be required by the Director of Information and Public Relations and shall also
produce a copy of the film and shall arrange to exhibit the film before the
Director of Information and Public Relations at [Chennai] on the date and time
to be fixed by the said Director.Every such application shall be accompanied
by the fee prescribed in these rules.

### 28.

On receipt of such application, the Director of Information and Public
Relations shall examine the said film with a view to determining whether it
could be approved by the Government under section 6 of the Act. If the
applicant desires to make any representation in regard to the film submitted
by him, the Director of Information and Public Relations shall give him an
opportunity to do so at this stage. Such representation shall be in writing
and shall be taken into consideration by the Director of Information and
Public Relations in making his recommendation to the Government.

### 29.

The Director of Information and Public Relations shall forward to the
Government, within five days after the examination of the film under rule 28,
his recommendation as to whether the film may be approved by the Government
under section 6 of the Act. If after considering the recommendation of the
Director of Information and Public Relations and after making such enquiry as
it deem fit, the Government decide to approve the film it shall notify the
title of the film, in the Gazette together with the address of the person,
firm, organisation or other Government with whom the cinema licensees can
enter into agreement for the supply of the film:Provided that the Government
shall not approve any film that has not been certified as suitable for
exhibition by the Central Board of Film Censors under the Cinematograph Act,
1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1952).]

### 30.

A fee of rupees five shall be charged for the examination of every [300
metres] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd November
1962.] of film or fraction thereof.

### 31.

Examination and approval of duplicates of films previously approved shall not
be necessary if it can be shown by the theme and the cast that the second
films is identical with the first.

### 32.

If any film is altered by excision, addition or otherwise, after it has been
approved by the Government, it shall cease to be an approved film unless it
has been re-examined by the [Director of Information and Public Relations]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 903, Home dated the 25th March, 1980.] and
approved by the Government in accordance with these rules. The fee for such
re-examination shall be the same as that laid down in rule 30 for the
examination of films.

### 33.

[The Director of Information and Public Relations] [Substituted by G. O. Ms.
No. 903, Home dated the 25th March, 1980.] shall maintain a register in which
the following particulars shall be entered, namely:-(a)the name of every film
examined;(b)the name of the person applying for approval;(c)the name of the
person or company producing and releasing the film;(d)the name of the country
in which the film was originally produced;(e)the date of examination;(f)the
length of the film in [metres] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated
the 23rd November 1962.], the number of reels and the length of each reel in
[metres] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd November
1962.];(g)remarks of the [Director of Information and Public Relations]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 903, Home dated the 25th March, 1980.] on such
examination; and(h)the number and date of the notification published in the
Gazette conveying approval of the Government.

### 34.

[The Director of Information and Public Relations or any officer authorised by
him not below the rank of a Public Relation Officer] [Substituted by G. O. Ms.
No. 2594, Home, dated the 28th July 1962.] or any Police Office not below the
rank of Sub-Inspector may enter any place licensed under the Act for the
purpose of seeing that the provisions of the rules in this Part are being
carried out.Part-II(A)Approval of Location of Permanent Cinemas

### 35.

(1)A person who intends to build a permanent cinema building shall furnish the
licensing authority with information in respect of items (a) to (f) of section
5(1) of the Act and other relevant particulars required in Form A. The
applications shall be accompanied by a plan of the proposed site drawn to
scale and shall clearly indicate the surrounding roads and buildings which
exist up to a distance of 200 [metres] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 3999,
Home, dated the 23rd November 1962.] of the proposed site, schools, hospitals,
temples or [mosques, churches, or other places of public worship] [Substituted
by G. O. Ms. No. 2594, Home, dated the 28th July 1962.] being clearly
indicated.[(1-A) A fee of [Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one thousand only)] [Inserted by
G.O. Ms. No. 281, Home, dated the 7th February 1981.] for permanent and semi-
permanent shall be paid in respect of each application and a treasury receipt
for the amount of the fee shall also be submitted along with the application
under sub rule (1).](2)[ A copy of the application in Form "A" referred to in
rule 35(1) shall be sent to Panchayat/Town Panchayat/Township
Committee/Municipal Council/ Municipal Corporation concerned which shall
forward it within sixty days from the date of receipt of application from the
applicant to the licensing authority with a copy of its resolution recording
its objections, if any, to the site and to the installation of machinery.]
[G.O. No. 3773 (Home), dated the 11th September 1981.](3)A copy of the
application shall also be sent to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic
and Licensing, [Chennai], or the District Superintendent of Police in the
mufassal, who shall remit it within one month from the applicant to the
licensing authority' with objections, if any, from the date of receipt of
application from the traffic point of view.

### 35A. [ [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 281, Home, dated the 7th February
1981.]

(1)On receipt of the application, the licensing authority shall scrutinise it
to see whether, it furnishes all the necessary information.(2)If, on such
scrutiny, the licensing authority considers that any of the rule is not
satisfied, he may, after giving an opportunity to the applicant of being
heard, reject the application.(3)If the application is complete in all
respects prima facie and it is found to comply with all the relevant rules,
the licensing authority shall, pending processing of the case, ask the
applicant to exhibit a notice in Form Al on the board, of atleast 1.20 metres
x 0.90 metre in size, on the proposed site in such a position that it can be
plainly seen from the public through fare upon which the site of the proposed
cinema abuts. The notice shall be written in bold and clearly, legible letters
in Tamil and it shall be maintained on the site until the matter is finally
decided by the licensing authority.(4)The licensing authority shall also cause
a notice in Form A2 to be published in the notice board of the Panchayat
Union/ Township Committee/Municipal Council/Corporation concerned and in the
District Gazette, intimating the fact of receipt of the application, and
calling for objections, if any, from the public in regard to noncompliance by
the applicant with any of the provisions of the Act or with any of the rules.
All objections shall be filed in writing before the licensing authority within
21 days from the date of publication of the last of these notices. Any
objection filed after this period shall [* * *] be summarily rejected.]

### 36.

[(1) After consideration of the application with reference to the matters
specified in section 5(1) of the Act, and the objections of the local
authority or the Police, the licensing authority shall grant a no objection
certificate in Form 'B' or may refuse to grant it, within [6 months]
[Substituted by Notification No. SRO A-281/82.] from the date of receipt of
the application from the applicant. A copy of the order shall be communicated
to the applicant and to the persons, if any, who have filed objections, before
the licensing authority. If no order is passed by the licensing authority
within the period of [6 months] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1428, Home, dated
the 29th June 1984.Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1428,Home, dated the 29th June
1984.], it shall be deemed that the a no objection certificate.][The licensing
authority shall inform the applicant within two months, from the date of
receipt of the application for a no objection certificate that his application
is under consideration.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 1428, dated the 29th June
1984.](2)[ The grant of no objection certificate is necessary for the
construction of a new cinema house and also for converting any building into a
cinema house.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3263, Home, dated the 26th
November 1970.](3)The no objection certificate so issued by the licensing
authority shall be valid for a period of three years. If within this period,
the proposed cinema is not put up, a fresh no objection certificate should be
applied for:[Provided that the Government in genuine cases and for reasons to
recorded in writing may extend the period of validity of the No objection
certificate or relax the conditions already imposed in the said certificate on
receipt of an application for the same from the applicant a fee of [Rs. 500
(Rupees five hundred only)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1861, dated the 11th
December 1995.] shall be paid in respect of each application and a treasury
receipt of the fee shall be submitted along with the application.][The
licensing authority shall send the report in Form 'L' for extension of
validity of no objection certificate or for relaxation of the condition
already imposed in the no objection certificate and in Form M for exemption
from the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules 1957.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 2927, Home, dated the 3rd December 1985.][Explanation. [Inserted by G.O.
Ms. No. 3198, dated the 27th December 1987.] \- for the purpose of this sub-
rule durations covered by stay orders of the Commissioner Land Administration
or of the High Court reckoned from the date of passing the order of stay to
the date of pronouncement of the final order vacating the stay should be
excluded in calculating the period of validity of the no objection
certificate.](4)[ Any person aggrieved by the orders of the licensing
authority granting or refusing to grant a no objection certificate, may appeal
to the Commissioner Land Administration. The rules in Part III shall apply to
such appeals.] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 451, Home, dated the 24th February
1986.]Part-II(B)Approval of Plan of Building

### 37.

(1)On receipt of the certificate referred to in rule 36, the applicant shall
submit an application for approval of plan of building to be constructed in
the approved site. Such application shall be accompanied by-his a on is under
consideration.(i)[ complete plan, elevation and section in quadruplicate of
the premises and of all erections or buildings thereon drawn correctly to a
scale of (one centimetre to a hundred centimetre-1:100) and showing the
position of electrical machinery and cinema apparatus prepared by an Engineer
holding BE degree in Civil Engineering of Anna University or Annamalai
University or any other Universities recognised as its equivalent by the All
India Council of Technical Education, New Delhi or by an Architect, holding
the recognised qualification as defined in clause (d) of section 2 of the
Architects Act, 1972 (Central Act 20 of 1972) and registered as an architect
under the provision of the said Act or by a holder of a diploma in Civil
Engineering with an experience for a period of not less than ten years in
building construction: [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 318, Home (Cinema), dated
the 23rd April 2008.]Provided that the holder of a diploma in Civil
Engineering can only prepare drawings/ structural design calculations/
structural detailing for the building in which not more than one cinema house
is proposed to be located:Provided further that the structural design
calculations structural detailing for execution of building shall be done only
by a holder of B.E. degree in Civil Engineering for any type of cinal theatre
and cinema theatres with commercial complex in association with an architect
if the architect prepared the drawings".](ii)a block plan in duplicate on a
separate sheet showing the position of such premises in relation to any
adjacent premises and to the pub He thoroughfare upon which the site of such
premises abuts, drawn to a scale of not less than [one centimetre to fifteen
metres;] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2927, Home, dated the 3rd December,
1985.](iii)a treasury receipt for the payment of fees for construction of
building and installation of machinery at the rates prescribed by the local
authority; and(iv)a plan (in single line) of the wiring in duplicate, a copy
of which shall be sent to the Electrical Inspector.(2)The cardinal points
shall be marked on such drawings. All drawings shall be coloured to
distinguish the material employed in the construction of buildings and
erections.(3)The width of all staircases and the number of steps in each, the
width of corridors, gangways and doorways together with the height of any
galleries or tiers in such premises and in any of the erections or buildings
in connection therewith as are more than one tier in height shall be indicated
on such drawings, as well as the floor and roof ventilation and the details of
any intended gas or electric installation. The thickness of the walls and
scantlings of the various materials used shall be clearly shown on such
drawings by figured dimensions.

### 38.

[(1) On receipt of the plan in triplicate, the licensing authority shall
consult the Public Works Department Authority concerned, who shall send his
report within one month from the date of receipt of reference from the
licensing authority. The licensing authority shall grant or refuse approval of
the plan of building within two weeks after the receipt of the report of the
Public Works Department Authority concerned. If the licensing authority
differs from the opinion of the Public Works Department Authority concerned,
he may consult the next higher authority concerned of the said department. In
such case, the order granting or refusing approval shall be passed within a
period of one month after the receipt of the report of the said higher
authority. The licensing authority shall send one copy of the approved plan of
the building to the local authority concerned. In case, the licensing
authority refuses approval, the reasons for the same shall be recorded by
him.] [Substituted G O. Ms. No. 1357, Home, dated the 8th September
1993.][(1-A) Five copies of the approved plan may be, given on payment of a
fee of Rs. 500 (Rupees five hundred only) and further additional copies of the
approved plan may be given on payment of a fee of Rs. 100 (rupees one hundred
only) per copy.] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No.1357, Cinema, dated the 8th
September 1993.](2)The licensing authority shall consult the Electrical
Inspector empowered to issue the electrical certificate as to whether the
wiring plan enclosed with the application conforms with the rules. The
Electrical Inspector shall scrutinise the schematic layout and the method of
construction and convey his approval or suggestions to the licensing authority
within one month from the date of receipt of reference from the licensing
authority. The Electrical Inspector shall not; suggest or order any
modification subsequently after the plan has been approved and the works have
been complete in accordance with the approved plan.

### 38A. [ [Substituted by G O. Ms. No.1357, Cinema, dated the 8th September
1993.]

In case of non-compliance of any rule in respect of a new theatre, the
licensing authority shall refer the same to the Government for orders, before
the grant of C Form licence, with the reasons for the omission to comply with
the rule.]

### 39.

An exemption may be granted by the Government from the operation of any
particular condition or restriction, provided a strict application of it
involves-(a)heavy structural alteration to the existing premises;
and(b)enormous cost or loss to the licensee.

## Part II – (C)

Approval of Building Constructed and Issue of Licence

### 40.

(1)On commencement of construction, the applicant shall notify the [Public
Works Department Authority concerned] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.1357,
Cinema, dated the 8th September 1993.] to enable him to issue the certificate
of structural soundness under sub-rule (4).(2)On completion of the building
according to the approved plan, the applicant shall obtain,-(i)[ a certificate
in Form 'D' from the Electrical Inspector covering provision in rule 11 in
Part I-A, rules 65 to 74,76,79 in Part IV and the rules 86 to 91 in Part V;]
[G. O. Ms. No.1488, Home, dated the 31st March 1958.](ii)a certificate from
the Executive Engineer covering the provisions in rules 54 to 56, 59, 60, 77
and 78 in Part IV and rules 80 to 82 in Part V.(3)[ The Chief Electrical
Inspector's Certificate in Form 'D' shall be valid for a period of three
years, provided that for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Officer
granting the certificate may reduce the period of validity of the certificate
to any shorter period.] [G.O.MS No. 2868, Home, dated the 24th December
1974.](4)[ The Executive Engineer' shall issue a certificate of structural
soundness of the building in Form 'N' along with a report in Form 'O' which
shall be valid for a period of three years:] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No.1364,
Cinema, dated the 3rd August 1992.][Provided that in the case of a building
which is more than twenty years old, the certificate of structural soundness
shall be valid for a period of one year only:] [Inserted by G.O.Ms. No. 1730,
Home (Cinema II), dated 2nd December 1993.]Provided [further] [Substituted by
G. O. Ms. No. 1730, Home (Cinema 11), dated 2nd December 1993.] that, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, the officer granting the certificate may
refuse to issue such certificate.Explanation. - For the purpose of issuing a
certificate under this rule, the Executive Engineer shall have power to make
an inspection of the building including the right to probe any portion of the
structure and to call upon the applicant for the licence to furnish him with
detailed particulars regarding the quality and proportion of the materials
used in the construction of the building.(5)The applicant, if aggrieved by an
order of the Executive Engineer refusing to grant a structural soundness
certificate, shall have the right to refer the matter to the [next higher
authority concerned of the said department] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1357,
Cinema, dated the 8th September 1993.] concerned whose technical opinion
thereon shall be final.(6)[* * *] [Omitted G.O. Ms. No. 44, Home, dated the
7th January 1991]

### 41.

After obtaining the certificates referred to in rule 40, the applicant shall
submit his application for licence in writing to the licensing authority. The
application shall be accompanied by-(1)the certificates issued by the
Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1357, Cinema, dated the 8th September 1993.[Public
Works Department Authority concerned] and Electrical Inspector;(2)a
declaration by the applicant to the effect that he has completed all
arrangements for obtaining films approved by the State Government under
section 6 of the Act and films certified by the Central Government with the
previous approval of the Central Film Advisory Board for exhibition at each
performance together with a statement from the suppliers confirming that such
arrangements have been made;(3)a treasury receipt for the payment of fees for
licence at the rates prescribed in rule 43, and(4)[ evidence of having insured
the audience with an insured company against the insurers liability for
payment of compensation to the victims of fire or other accidents inside the
auditorium; and] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1811, dated the 4th December
1995.](5)[ a certified copy of the registered deed authorising the applicant
to act as a Managing Partner or Managing Trustee, in case the cinema theatre
is run by a partnership firm or a trust, as the case may be.] [Added G.O. Ms.
No. 1045, Home, dated the 9th July 1993.]

### 42.

[(1) On receipt of the application for licence together with the certificates
referred to in rule 41, the licensing authority shall issue to the applicant
within two week from the date of its receipt a licence in Form 'C' for the
period covered by the Chief Electrical Inspector's certificate, and structural
soundness certificate refuse to issue such a licence. A copy of the plans and
drawings referred to the rule 37 shall be attached to the licence. (A copy of
the order shall be communicated to the applicant and to the persons, if any,
who have filed objections before the licensing authority.)] [Rule 42(1)
substituted by G.O. Ms No. 2290, Home, dated the 31st October 1983.](2)A
duplicate of a licence may be granted on payment of a fee of [Rs. 1,000
(Rupees one thousand only)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1054, Home, dated the
10th July 2007.].

### 43.

[(i) For every licence when granted a fee shall be charged according to the
scale laid down below.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1652, dated the 31st
October 1995.]For a triennial licence. - Rupees three hundred for an area of
100 square metres less with an additional fee of rupees one fifty tor every 50
square metres or fraction thereof in excess of 100 square metres subject to a
minimum of [Rs. 2500 (Rupees two thousand five hundred only] [Substituted by
G.O. Ms. No. 1054, Home, dated the 10th July 2007.].For a temporary licence
for a period not exceeding three months for a building not thatched nor
constructed of inflammable materials. - [Rs. 100 (Rupees one hundred only]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1054, Home, dated the 10th July 2007.] for a
month or for a portion thereof for an area of [100 square metres] [G.O. Ms.
No. 721, Home, dated the 29th March 1982.] or less with an additional fee of
rupee, twenty-five for a month or for a portion thereof for every [50 square
metres] [G.O. Ms. No. 721, Home, dated the 29th March 1982.] or fraction
thereof in excess of [100 square metres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1054,
Home, dated the 10th July 2007.].(ii)[ one-half of the fee shall be credited
to the local authority concerned excluding Panchayats.] [G.O. Ms. No. 773,
Home, dated the 5th May 1975.](iii)[ For reasons to be recorded in writing,
the licensing authority may grant a licence so as to be valid for a period of
less than three years, in which case he shall collect only the proportionate
licence fee.] [G.O Ms. No. 2868, Home, dated the 24th December 1974.](iv)A
temporary licence for a permanent building shall be granted only for a period
not exceeding three months in the aggregate within any continuous period of
twelve months. The fees for temporary licences shall be leviable at half of
the above rates, where the buildings or enclosures are used solely by day and
without lights; and(v)In case of refusal of the grant of a licence, a refund
at the rate of one-half of the total amount of the fee collected, may be made
to the applicant. The application for such refund shall, however, be made by
the applicant within one month from the date of receipt of the orders of
rejection of his application for grant of licence. The refund shall be made
after the expiry of the period of appeal or after the disposal of the appeal
if one has been presented.Explanation. - Where the place consists partly of a
structure and partly of a mere unroofed enclosure, the fee shall be calculated
on the area of the structure alone.

### 44.

[(1) For the inspection of the enclosure, cinema apparatus and plant, electric
installation, fire fighting and precautionary measures, when first erected, a
fee of [Rs. 2,500 (Rupees two thousand and five hundred only)] [First para of
rule 44 substituted by No. SRO A-158/84.] shall be paid in advance by the
applicant for the electrical certificate for a period of three years into a
Government treasury to the credit of the Government under the appropriate head
of account.]For the inspection of the building by the [Public Works Department
Authority Concerned] [Substituted G.O. Ms. No. 1357, Cinema, dated the 8th
September 1993.] in connection with the issue of a certificate regarding its
structural soundness, a fee of rupees one hundred and twenty-five shall be
paid in advance by the applicant for the grant of a licence, into a Government
treasury to the credit of the Government under the head "XXXVII-Public Works
Revenue-Miscellaneous other receipts Fees for the issue of certificate of
structural soundness of cinemas". For every inspection of permanent cinema
building licensed under the Act in connection with the issue of a certificate
regarding its structural soundness once in three years, a similar fee of
rupees one hundred and twenty-five shall be paid by the licensee into a
Government treasury under the head of account specified above.[* * *] [Omitted
G O. Ms. No. 44, Home, dated 7 January 1991.](2)A duplicate of the Chief
Electrical Inspector's certificate may be granted by the Chief Electrical
Inspector on payment of a fee of Rs. 25, provided that the application is
submitted through the licensing authority.

### 44A. [ [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 1410, dated 23rd September 1997.]

When the legal heir of a deceased licensee applies for re-grant of the expired
'C Form licence the licensing authority may re-grant the licence after
obtaining a report from the Revenue Divisional Officer concerned;][Part II-A]
[Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 233, Home, Cinema 19th March, 2002.] Compoundable
Offences

### 44B.

The offences which may be compounded as provided in section 8-A of the Act
shall be specified in the Table below -

SI. No. | Details of the Offence | Condition/ Rule/ Section  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1. |  Conducting matinee and other extra shows withoutprior permission | Condition 14-A of "C" Form licence  
2. |  Conducting shows in the theatre without valid CForm licence or E permit | Section 3  
3. |  Leasing out theatres without permission of thelicensing authority | Condition of "C" Form licence  
4. |  Allowing unlicenced operators to handleprojectors | Rule 11(1)  
5. |  Dirty and insanitary conditions of theauditorium, lavatories, etc. | Rules 55(1) and Rule 80(2)  
6. |  Non-provision of fans or provision of defectivefans | Rule 64(1)  
7. |  Refusal of licensees to apply fire resistancepaints in the auditorium | Rule 56(1)  
8. | Poor conditions of seals and chairs | Rule 84(1) and 84(5)  
9. | Poor ridden conditions in the auditorium | Rule 80(6)  
10. | Lack of periodical white washing | Rule 80(6)  
11. | Non-display of ticket rates at booking counter | Rules 8 3(1 A) (b)  
12. |  Non-provision of drinking water or provisions ofunclean water | Rule 81 (i)  
13. | Non-exhibition of news reals | Section 6  
14. |  Non-exhibition of cinematograph Act and Rules inthe auditorium | Rule 5  
15. |  Non-production of "C" Form licence andrelated certificates before inspecting authorities. | Rule 9  
  
## Part III

Appeals

### 45.

The [Joint Commissioner of Land Administration] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.
989, Home, dated the 4th May 1988.] shall be the appellate authority to which
an appeal under section 5(7) [or section 9-A] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 1941,
Home, dated the 7th June 1961.] of the Act against the decision of the
licensing authority shall be preferred. Such appeal shall be preferred within
30 days of the date of receipt of the order appealed against, [and during the
said 30 days time, the licensing authority shall not give effect to the order
of suspension or revocation:] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 44, Home, dated the 7th
January 1991.][Provided that the appellate authority may admit an appeal
preferred within a period of two months after the expiry of the prescribed
period of thirty days aforesaid, if sufficient cause is shown for not
preferring the appeal within the prescribed period:] [Substituted by G. O. Ms.
No. 2510, Home, dated the 19th August 1963.]Provided further that in computing
the periods aforesaid, the time taken for obtaining a certified copy of the
order appealed against shall be excluded:Provided also that, where an appeal
is presented within the prescribed period of thirty days aforesaid, but is
returned by the appellate authority for re-presentation in the prescribed
manner; and if such appeal is re-presented in the manner prescribed and within
the date, if any, specified by the appellate authority for the re-presentation
of the appeal, the appeal so re-presented shall be deemed to have been
presented within the prescribed time for the purpose of this rule.

### 46.

[(1) An appeal preferred under rule 45 shall be submitted in duplicate in the
form of memorandum with as many extra copies as there are respondents
impleaded in the case, setting forth concisely the grounds of objection to the
order which is the subject of appeal and shall be accompanied by the original
or a certified copy of the order appealed against.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 3948, Home, dated the 17th September 1962.](2)[ The appeal shall be signed
by the appellant or by his authorised agent and presented to the appellate
authority in person or by agent at any time during the office hours on any
working day or sent by registered post acknowledgment due. The authorisation
of the agent to present appeals shall be in writing and shall accompany the
appeal unless the agent holds a power of attorney.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 1861, dated the 11th December 1995.]

### 47.

(1)A fee of rupees [Rs. 1,000 (Rupees One thousand only) for permanent and
Semi permanent cinema and Rs. 800 (Rupees Eight hundred only for travelling
cinema] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1054, Home, dated the 10th July 2007.]
shall be paid in respect of each appeal and the memorandum of appeal shall be
accompanied by a treasury receipt for the amount of the fee due on the appeal.
[No Court-fee stamp need be a affixed to the memorandum of appeal,]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3366, Home, dated the 24th October, 1960.](2)If a
petition purporting to be an appeal is found by the appellate authority to be
inadmissible for want of jurisdiction, [the entire] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 1355, Home, dated the 4th April 1962.] fee paid in respect of such appeal
may be refunded to the appellant. The application for such refund shall,
however, be made by the appellant within one month from the date of receipt of
the orders of rejection of his appeal.(3)[ If an appeal is not filed after the
fee has been remitted into the treasury, the entire fee so remitted may be
refunded to the appellant. The application for such refund shall, however, be
made by the appellant within one month from the date of remittance.]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1305, Home, dated the 4th April 1962.][Part
III-A] [Part III-A was inserted by G. O. Ms.No. 3010, Home, dated the 7th
December 1979.] Revision

### 47A.

(1)The Government may entertain an application for revision against the
decision of the appellate authority under section 5(7) or section 9-A(l) of
the Act. Such application for revision shall be preferred within thirty days
from the date of receipt of the order of the appellate authority:Provided that
the Government may admit an application for revision preferred within a period
of two months after the expiry of the prescribed period of thirty days
aforesaid, if sufficient cause is shown for not preferring the application for
revision within the prescribed period:Provided further that in computing the
periods aforesaid, the time taken for obtaining a certified copy of the order
of the appellate authority shall be excluded:Provided also that, where an
application for revision is presented within the prescribed period of thirty
days aforesaid, but is returned by the Government for representation in the
prescribed manner, and if such an application for revision is re-presented in
the manner prescribed and within the date, if any, specified by the Government
for the re-presentation of the application for revision, the application for
revision so presented shall be deemed to have been presented within the
prescribed time for the purpose of this rule.(2)An application for revision
preferred under sub-rule (1) shall be submitted in triplicate in the form of a
memorandum with, as many extra copies as there are respondents impleaded in
the case, setting forth concisely the grounds of objection to the order which
is the subject of revision and shall be accompanied by the original or a
certified copy of the order of the appellate authority.(3)The application for
revision shall be signed by the petitioner or by his authorised agent and
presented to the Government at anytime during the office hours on any working
day or sent by registered post acknowledgment due. The authorisation of the
agent to present the application for revision shall be in writing and shall
accompany the application for revision unless the agent holds a power of
Attorney.(4)A fee of [Rs. 1000 (Rupees one thousand only)] [Substituted by G.
O. Ms. No. 1054, dated the 10th July 2007.] for permanent and semi permanent
cinema and [Rs. 600 (Rupees six hundred only)] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.
1054, dated the 10th July 2007.] for travelling cinema shall be paid in
respect of each application for revision and the memorandum of application for
revision shall be accompanied by a treasury receipt for the amount of the fee
due on the application for revision. No Court-fee stamp need be affixed to the
memorandum of application for revision.(5)If an application purporting to be
an application for revision is found by the Government to be inadmissible for
want of jurisdiction, the entire fee paid in respect of such application for
revision may be refunded to the petitioner. The application for such refund,
shall, however, be made by the applicant within one month from the date of
receipt of the orders of rejection of his application for revision.(6)If an
application for revision is not filed after the fee has been remitted into
treasury, the entire fee so remitted may be refunded to the applicant. The
application for such refund shall, however, be made by the applicant one month
from the date of remittance.

## Part IV

Building

### 48.

(1)No site which would admit the storm-water draining into it owing to its
level or location, shall be used for the construction of a building unless
arrangements are made to prevent effectually the flooding of the site either
by draining into a storm-water course if one is available, or by raising the
level of the site to an adequate height by the deposit of layers of sand and
non-prescribe material.(2)No site wherein the soil and sub-soil would be so
saturated with water dampness of the floor and walls of the building would be
inevitable, shall be used for the construction of a building, unless a damp-
proof course is provided in the basement of the building not higher than the
level of the lowest floor unless the flooring is made with a material approved
by the licensing authority which would effectively prevent the dampness rising
in the floor of building.(3)Every person who constructs, re-constructs or
alters, or adds to, a building shall, wherever the site is within [15 metres]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd November 1962.] of
any tank, reservoir, watercourse, river, fresh-water channel or well, carry
out such measures as may be necessary or as the licensing authority may
direct, for the purpose of preventing any contamination of, or any risk of the
drainage of the building passing into such tank, reservoir, water-course.
river, fresh-water channel or well.(4)[ No site in which a power line passes
above or adjacent to it within the minimum clearance distance specified in the
Indian Electricity Rules, 1956 shall be used for the construction of a
building. In the case of an existing building in which a power line passes
above or in front of, and outside the premises, closing the approach way,
adequate minimum clearances shall be observed and protective devices shall be
provided, as per the provisions in the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956.] [Added
by G.O. Ms. 539, dated the 11th April 1997.]

### 49.

(1)The foundations of every building newly constructed shall be-(i)so
constructed that they will sustain the combined load of the building and of
the superimposed load and transmit those loads to the sub-soil in such manner,
as not to impair the stability of the building or any part thereof by the
settlement caused by the pressure of such loads; and(ii)taken down to such a
depth, or so constructed, as to render the building immune from damage from
movements due to seasonal variations in the content of moisture, in the
ground.(2)Every person who constructs, re-constructs, adds to, or alters a
building, should take necessary steps so as to secure proper stability of the
buildings and to tender the building immune from any settlement or movement
that may be caused the soil on account of seasonal variations in the contents
of moisture, in equalities of soil resistance, lateral escape of soft soil,
sliding of the sub stratum on slopping ground, distributed or concentrated
lateral pressure or other causes.

### 50.

Every person who constructs, re-constructs, adds to, or alters a building
shall comply with the following requirements:-The ground floor of lowest floor
of the building shall be at such a level as will allow of the effectual
drainage of that floor. It shall, ordinarily, be not less than [half a metre]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd November 1962.] above
the ground or site level.

### 51.

Every building shall be provided with means for the effectual drainage of
storm water, sullage and sewage from the premises, and sufficient and suitable
sanitary conveniences for the use of the occupants of the building.

### 52.

Every permanent cinema building shall satisfy the following
requirements:-(1)Such building has a road frontage on the public thoroughfare
upon which the site of such building abouts;(2)Suitable booking windows for
the various classes are provided within the building in such a position that
there is room for queues of would be purchasers of tickets to form up within
the premises without causing any obstruction to traffic on the public
road;(3)Suitable handrailing [1.2 metres] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 3999,
Home, dated the 23rd November 1962.] high in front of booking windows shall be
provided to enable would be purchasers of tickets to form up queues within the
premises. The handrailing should be of galvanized iron pipes at [0.2,286 m. to
03.048 m.] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1746, Home, dated the 21th August 1989.]
centres in tabular posts as per specification No. 88 of the Madras Detailed
Standard Specification or reinforced concrete work or wood work and should be
so located that the width of the passage is not less than [60 cm] [Substituted
by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd November 1962.];(4)Suitable
shelters shall be provided for protecting the would be purchasers of tickets
standing in queues from sun and rain. The shelters may be of permanent pucca
construction or of a light type of construction with asbestos cement sheets
over steel or precast reinforced concrete members. The shelters should be so
arranged that they do not affect light and ventilation and at the same time
afford protection against sun and rain for the would be purchasers of tickets
standing in the queues;(5)The handrailing and shelter mentioned in sub-rules
(3) and (4) above shall be sufficient to accommodate at least one-third of the
number of the would-be purchasers of tickets; and(6)Suitable means of entrance
and exit are provided for the public in such frontage [not less than five
metres in width and shall open on public thoroughfare; and] [Added by G. O.
Ms. No. 1746, Home, dated the 21th August 1989.](7)In addition, there shall be
not less than two reserved entrance and exists in the compound wall for the
free movement of persons and for facilitating rescue operations in times of
emergency [and each of such entrance and exit shall be of not less than five
metres in width] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 1746, Home, dated the 21th August
1989.]. The entrance and exit ways shall be separate and distinct.

### 52A. [ [Inserted by G. O Ms. No. 1501, Home, dated the 21st August 1975.]

(i)No person other than a licensee or his agent duly authorised by him in
writing shall sell or offer or expose for sale or cause to be sold or cause to
be kept or exposed for sale any ticket or pass or any other evidence of the
right of admission to any cinema.(ii)No ticket or pass or any other evidence
of the right of admission to any cinema shall be sold, kept or offered or
exposed for sale in any place other than the booking offices provided for the
purpose at the cinema theatre itself and shall not be sold to any person other
than a person who lines up in queue, if any, before the booking
window:Provided that the licensing authority may, in the case of charitable
shows or for any other sufficient reason, permit in writing the sale of
tickets, passes or any other evidence for admission at places other than the
booking offices or by persons other than the licensee or agent duly authorised
by him in writing.]

### 53.

The building shall be provided on at least three of its sides with an open
space of not less than 6.10 metres in width or of such greater width as may be
required by the licensing authority for parking the number of cars which would
be normally attracted, and for the purpose of the free movement of persons and
for facilitating rescue operations in times of emergency:Provided that in the
case of a building where the licensee has provided adequate parking space for
cars either in the basement or ground floor over which the auditorium is
located, or in the vicinity of the building, acceptable to the licensing
authority, there shall be an open space of not less than 3.05 metres on all
sides of the building except on the rear side, for the free movement of
persons and to facilitate rescue operations in times of emergency:[Provided
further that in the case of a building with shopping complex, the licensing
authority shall consider the requirement of open space, in consultation with
the authorities or the Planning Department, Police Department. Fire and Rescue
Services Department and the Public Works Department, keeping in view the
number of persons expected to visit the shopping complex as well as the cinema
theatre and other aspects concerning free movement of persons and vehicles and
the space required to facilitate rescue operation in times of emergency.]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. 132.0, Home (Cine.I), dated 6th September
1995.](2)The caves of the building shall have a height of not less than [3.10
m.] [Substituted by G. O Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd November
1962.].(3)[ In the case of a building with more than one story, where the
licensee has provided parking space for vehicles in the basement, the vertical
height of the parking stalls in the basement shall, in no case, be less than
2,10 meters from the floor level.] [Added by G.O. Ms.No. 1276 SRO A.144/87,
dated the 28th May 1987.]

### 54.

The premises shall be enclosed with proper external or parting walls of brick
or stone.

### 55.

(1)The licensee shall provide suitable means of drainage to the building and
also sanitary conveniences of such description and design as may be prescribed
on the recommendation of the Public Works Department Authority concerned who
has to issue the structural soundness certificate of the building for the
exclusive use of each sex according to the scale indicated below and shall
cause the same to be maintained in good order and sanitary condition:-Scale of
sanitary accommodation to be provided:-Men-Urinals-One stall (seat) for every
hundred persons.Latrines-One stall (seat) for every two hundred persons.Women-
Same scale as for men.(2)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1),
the requirements for fitments for drainage and sanitation in respect of the
building constructed or reconstructed after the 1st April 1975 shall be as
follows:-] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3225, Home, dated the 21st December
1976]Requirement for Fitments

SI. No. | Fitments | Male Public | Female Public | Male Staff | Female Staff  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
1. | Water Closets | 1 for every 100 persons upto 400 persons | 2 For every 100 persons upto 200 persons | 1 for 1-15 persons | 1 for 1-12 persons  
For above 400 persons add at the rate of 1 forevery 250 persons or part thereof |  For above 200 persons add at the rate of 1 forevery 100 persons or part thereof | 2 for 16-35 persons | 2 for 13 to 25 persons  
2. | Ablution Taps | 1 in each water closet | 1 in each water closet | 1 in each water closet | 1 in each water closet  
3. | Urinals | 1 for 4-50 persons or part thereof | Nil |  Upto 6 persons,1 for 7-20 persons and2for 21-45 Persons | Nil  
4. | Wash Basins | 1 for every 200 persons or part thereof | 1 for every 200 persons or part thereof | 1 for 1 15 persons2 for 16-35 persons | 1 for 1-12 persons2 for 13-25 persons  
  
### 55A. [ [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2280. Home, dated the 12th December
1975.]

The licensee shall provide bulk head fittings in the queue sheds, ticket
counters and toilet rooms intended for the use of the public.]

### 56.

(1)The floor, roof-ceiling, private boxes, balconies, galleries, tiers,
partitions and every room, lobby, corridor and passage intended for the use of
the public shall be constructed of fire-resisting materials[(1-A) False
ceiling either for sound effects or air conditioning or other similar purpose
shall be so constructed as to prevent either total or early collapse in the
event of fire so that persons underneath are not fatally trapped before they
have time to reach the exits. To provide easy access for the fighting
apparatus cat walk of suitable materials should be provided. The fire
resistance requirements for the different structural elements composing the
building shall be in accordance with Table 5 of the Indian Standard
Institution 4878-1968.] [Inserted G.O. Ms. No. 3171, Home, dated 15th December
1976.](2)No panelling of walls with wood and other combustible materials for
decorative and other purposes in the cinema building shall be
permitted:Provided that in cinema building in which such panelling has already
been effected, the combustible materials with which the panelling has been
effected shall be treated with fire-resistant paints [or varnish] [Inserted by
G.O. Ms. No.1070, Home dated 12th June 1975.],

### 57.

(1)Where the first tier or balcony extends over the pit or stall, the height
between the floor of the pit or stall and such tier or balcony shall not in
any part, be less than [3 metres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home,
dated 23rd November 1962.]; the height between the floor or the highest part
of the gallery and the lowest part of the ceiling over the same shall not, in
any part, be less than [3.75 metres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home,
dated 23rd November 1962.]. The height between any tier and the tier or
ceiling above it shall, in on case, be less than [2.75 metres] [Substituted by
G O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November 1962.].(2)[ Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-rule (1), where a balcony is provided in respect of
the buildings constructed or re-constructed after the 1st April 1975, its
projection into the hall shall not be more than three times the free height of
the opening of the balcony recess.] [Inserted G.O Ms. No. 3171, Home, dated
15th December 1976.]

### 58.

(1)No corridor leading to any staircase communicating with any exit shall be
less than [1.5 metres] [Inserted G.O. Ms. No. 3171, Home, dated 15th December
1976.] in width in any part thereof.(2)Where possible, gradients or inclined
planes shall be used instead of steps, but no gradient or inclined planes
shall be steeper than 1 in 10.

### 59.

Where cloak-rooms are provided, they shall be situated that the use of them
shall not obstruct the free use of any exit.

### 60.

(1)All outside doors for the use of the public shall be made to open outwards
and all internal doors shall be so fitted as not to obstruct, when open, any
gangway, passage stairway or landing. Such doors, when open, should engage on
an automatic spring.(2)The size of the doorways shall not be less than [2.25
metres by 1.5 metres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd
November 1962.] the width being measured between the leaves of the door in the
open positions.(3)When doors open on to any gangway, passage, stairway or
landing, such doors shall open in the direction the public move to the exit.
No door shall open out directly on to a flight of steps. There shall be a
landing of at least [1.5 metres flush with the door] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November 1962.].

### 61.

(1)All staircases shall be constructed entirely of stone, cement or concrete
with fire-resisting roof and ceiling and shall have solid square (as
distinguished from spandrel) steps and landing of approved stone or of such
other fire-resisting material and construction as may be approved by the
licensing authority with treads not less than [27.5 cm] [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November 1962.] wide and with risers not more
than [1.5cm] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November
1962.] high (each lapping at least [2.5 cm] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999,
Home, dated 23rd November 1962.] over the back edge of the step below it) in
flights of not more than 15 or less than 3 steps.(2)The floors of all landing
shall be [15 cm] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November
1962.] thick.(3)Every staircase forming an exit from an upper gallery or tier
of the auditorium shall be enclosed on both sided with walls of brick or fire-
resisting materials in the storeys through which it passes and no opening
shall be made into auditorium except the one required for exit from the
gallery or tier which it serves:Provided that staircases leading to the first
or lower gallery or tier may be left open on one side in which case the open
side shall be provided with extra stout handrails and balusters, but in no
case shall staircases be left open on both sides.(4)All enclosed staircases
shall have on both sides strong handrails firmly secured to the wall by strong
metal brackets about [7.5 cm] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated
23rd November 1962.] clear therefrom and about [1 metre] [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November 1962.] above the stairs, but such
handrails shall not run on level platforms and landing where the length of
such platform or landing exceeds the width of the stairs.(5)Where the flight
of steps returns upon itself the new wall shall be chased so as to allow the
handrails to turn without projecting over the landing.(6)The treads and risers
of steps on each flight shall be of uniform width and height.(7)Each flight of
steps shall be properly supported and enclosed to the satisfaction of the
licensing authority.(8)No staircases shall have more than two flights of 15
steps without a turn and the width of the landing between such flights shall
be at least the same as the width of the staircase.(9)There shall be at least
two staircases each not less than(10)Stairs turning at an angle shall have a
proper landing without winders being introduced at the turn.(11)There shall be
no recesses or projections in the walls of such staircases within [1.75
metres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November 1962.] of
the floor and any fittings for lighting shall be at least [2 metres]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November 1962.] above the
steps or landing

### 62.

(1)Every building shall be provided with an adequate number clearly indicated
entrances and exists so placed and maintained as readily to afford the
audience ample means of safe movement, and with a passage [1 metre]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November 1962.] width for
every ten rows of seating accommodation. By adequate is meant [1.5 linear
metres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November 1962.] of
exit way for [45 square metres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated
23rd November 1962.] of sitting space inside.(2)[ A common place of egress may
serve as the exit, for the floor and the first tier of the auditorium,
provided the capacity of such place of egress is equal to the aggregate
capacity prescribed by these rules for the necessary outlets from floor and
tier.] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 655, Home, dated 5 March 1980.](3)If the
floor or any tier of the auditorium is divided into two or more separate exits
as prescribed in the rules shall be provided for each such part.(4)All doors
shall open outwards and shall be distributed round the hall and merely at one
end or side.(5)The words No exit' shall be painted over all doors or opening
which are in sight of the audience but which cannot be used as exits.The word
'Exit' shall be painted over all exit doors. The words 'No Exit' and 'Exit'
shall be painted in letters of [15 cm] [Substituted by G.O. Ms No. 3999, Home,
dated 23rd November 1962.] high and [2.5 cm] [Substituted by G.O. Ms No. 3999,
Home, dated 23rd November 1962.] thick.(6)A notice shall be clearly painted on
the exit doors indicating the method of opening.(7)Each exit notice shall be
illuminated by a light; Such lights shall be kept burning the whole time the
public are on the premises.

### 63.

The following provisions shall be observed in providing seating
accommodation-(1)The gangways shall be not less than [1.25 metres]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms No. 3999, Home, dated 23rd November 1962.] in width
and shall arranged that no seat shall be more than 10 seats from a
gangway.(2)The angle of elevation subtended at the eye of any person seated in
the row nearest to the screen by the length of the vertical line dropped from
the centre of the top edge of the picture to the horizontal plane passing
through observer's eye shall not exceed 35 degrees, the height of the eye of
the person seated being [1.10 metres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms No. 3999, Home,
dated 23rd November 1962.] above the floor level. A strong barrier or other
efficient partition shall be provided to enforce this provision.(3)The angle
between the vertical plane containing the upper edge of the picture and the
vertical plan containing the observers eye and the remote end of the upper
edge of the picture shall not be less than 25 degrees. A strong barrier or
other partition, shall be provided to enforce this provisions.(4)[ In theatres
where 70 mm. picture is exhibited, the front row shall not be near to the
screen than the effective width of the normal picture for 35 mm, film ¾th of
effective width, for cinema scope and half of the effective width for 70mm.
film. The distance shall be measured from the back edge of the front row to
the screen. Where the screen or the row or both are curved, the distance shall
be measured from chord to chord.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1659, Home
dated 21 June 1973.]

### 64.

(1)The licensee shall provide sufficient and approved artificial means of
ventilation whenever required by the licensing authority. Artificial means of
ventilation shall include provision of exhaust fans. [The standard for
ventilation shall be 28 cubic meter of fresh air per seat per hour.] [Added by
G.O. Ms. No. 3171, Home, dated 15th December 1976.](2)Guards shall be provided
for ceiling fans with less than 2.25 meters clearance; the height between the
guard and the floor shall not be less than 2.20 metres.(3)At the time of the
grant of the licence for the first time, the licensing authority may require
that the auditorium shall be provided with exhaust fans at the rate of one
exhaust fan for a floor area of 45 square metres or fraction thereof.

### 64A. [ [Inserted G.O. Ms. No. 1891 Home, dated the 3rd January 1996.]

(i)In air-conditioned theatre inside temperature shall be 75 F plus or minus
3°F for dry bulb temperature of 750F(ii)The air conditioning should have fully
gone into effect at the start of the show and should continue throughout the
show.(iii)The licensee should install a recording type electronic temperature
indicator in the air-conditioned theatre to check the condition imposed in
clause (i). The indicator should be located at the office of the Manager or
the licensee in the theatre. [* * *] The bulb of the recording type electronic
temperature indicator should be installed by the licensee inside the
auditorium at an appropriate place with sufficient guard which shall be locked
and sealed by the licensing authority or his subordinate who has been
authorised the licensing authority for this purpose.(iv)The licensing
authority should enter in the "C" Form licence the capacity of the air-
conditioning unit installed in the theatre by the licensee.(v)A complaint book
should be kept at the office of the Manager or licensee in the theatre to
enable the persons who witness film shows in the theatre to record therein
complaints, if any.(vi)In the event of a breakdown of the air-conditioning
plant, the licensee shall always keep ready and make alternative arrangements
for ventilation and air circulation of such standard in accordance with the
requirements in rule 64.(vii)Where there is breakdown of the air-conditioning
plant, the licensee should inform the licensing authority of the breakdown
within 24 hours of its occurrence before it is rectified.]

### 65.

The cinema apparatus shall be placed in an enclosure of substantial
construction made of, or lined internally with fire resisting material, and of
dimensions sufficient to allow the operator to work freely.

### 66.

(1)The enclosure shall be outside the auditorium. In cases where a rewinding
room adjoins the enclosure and has a common door between leading from one to
the other, this door shall be provided with a single shutter having suitable
springs to make it self-closing.(2)If the enclosure is inside the auditorium,
no openings other than those required for projection and observation of the
enclosure shall be permitted to communicate with the auditorium.

### 67.

The openings in front of the enclosure shall not be larger than is necessary
for effective projection and of observation. No such opening shall exceed [20
centimetre square] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd
November 1962.]:Provided that where a special type of film projector requires
a wider opening the Chief Electrical Inspector may permit a larger opening up
to a maximum of [60 centimetres square] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999,
Home, dated the 23rd November 1962.].

### 68.

Each Opening shall be provided with a plate glass screen not less than [5
millimetres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd November
1962.] in thickness fixed in position within smoke tight joint:Provided that
for openings of less than [130 square centimetres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd November 1962.] the thickness of the plate
glass screen shall not be less than [3 millimetres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 3999, Home, dated the 23rd November 1962.]: Provided further that for
openings of more than [20 centimetres square] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No.
3999, Home, dated the 23rd November 1962.]-(i)the glass screens used shall be
of armoured plate or wired plate glass;(ii)metal screens shall be provided in
addition to the glass screens, and the opening shall be closed with the metal
screens when not in use for projections; and(iii)notice shall be put up in the
cabin to the effect that the openings shall be closed with the metal screens
when the openings are not in use.

### 69.

(1)Lanterns shall be placed on firm supports constructed of fire resisting
material and shall be provided each with a metal shutter which can be readily
inserted between the source of light and the film gate.(2)Where the electric
pressure in the enclosure exceeds 125 volts, all metal supports of the lantern
shall be connected to the earth.

### 70.

Cables for cinema lamps shall be taken as separate circuits from the supply
side of the main fuses in the general lighting circuit.

### 71.

An efficient double pole switch shall be fitted within the enclosure in the
cinema lamps circuit.

### 72.

Within the enclosure the insulating material of all electric cables, including
those leading to illuminating lamps, shall be covered with fire-resisting
material. If the electric pressure to the cabin exceeds 125 volts, all cables
inside the cabin shall be enclosed in screwed metal conduits connected to the
earth. Lead covered cables shall not be used unless enclosed in such conduits.

### 73.

All resistances, with the exception of a resistance for regulating purposes,
shall be placed outside the enclosure and, if reasonably practicable, outside
the auditorium. If placed inside the auditorium, such resistances shall be
protected by an earth wire guard or other efficient means of preventing
accidental contact.

### 74.

(1)The electric lighting of the premises shall have at least three separate
and distinct main circuits as follows:-(i)For the enclosure and thence through
a dimming regulator to the central lighting of the auditorium;(ii)For the
remaining half of the auditorium, passage ways, stairways, exit and parts of
the building open to the public; and(iii)For the remaining half of the
auditorium, passage ways, stairways, exit and parts of the building open to
the public.The control of the circuits in respect of the two halves of the
auditorium referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii) shall be remote from each
other;Where the general lighting of the auditorium is controlled from within
the enclosure, there shall also be separate and independent means of control
outside of and away from the enclosure. A competent person shall be appointed
to be present and to be in charge of the general lighting when the public are
on the premises.

### 74A. [ [Inserted G. O. Ms. 2732, Home, dated 21st December 1989.]

In all permanent cinema buildings, lightning conductors shall be provided for
the protection of building against lightning.]

### 75.

All permanent cinema buildings shall be in communication with the nearest fire
brigade station by telephone when such facilities exist, which shall be fitted
in such place and manner as the licensing authority may direct. The
installation and maintenance of the complete telephone connection shall be
carried out at the cost of the licensee.

### 76.

(1)No addition to, or alternation of, any part of the electrical installation
within the cabin or auditorium or of the arc or projector in the cabin shall
be made without the prior sanction of the licensing authority being obtained
therefor. The licensee shall notify in writing his intention to make such
addition or alteration simultaneously to the licensing authority and to the
Chief Electrical Inspector. The licensing authority shall not accord his
sanction for the addition or alteration unless the Chief Electrical Inspector
or the officer deputed by him certifies that the alteration or addition
fulfils the requirements of these rules.(2)For addition to, or alteration of,
any part of electrical installation outside the cabin or auditorium in the
premises of cinema theatres, the licensee shall notify in writing his
intention to make such addition or alteration to the Chief Electrical
Inspector to Government or an officer designated by him along with schematic
layout showing the existing installations and proposed additions or
alterations duly signed by the contractor/ supervisor who is executing the
work. The Chief Electrical Inspector to Government or an officer designated by
him shall-arrange to inspect the premises and communicate his approval within
15 days from the date of receipt of the notice. If the approval of the Chief
Electrical Inspector to Government or the officer designated by him is not
received within the said period of 15 days, the licensee may proceed with the
work.(3)Any temporary changes necessitated by sudden break downs should be
reported simultaneously to the licensing authority and to the Chief Electrical
Inspector by wire immediately and in writing within 24 hours.

### 77.

No subsequent addition or alteration shall be made to the premises in respect
of which a licence has been granted or to any part thereof, without the
sanction of the licensing authority being obtained therefor and the plans and
drawings relating to such addition or alteration being approved of by him.

### 78.

The licensee shall give notice in writing to the licensing authority of his
intention to add or alter the licensed premises or any portion thereof and
such notice shall describe clearly the intended additions or alterations and
be accompanied by complete plans, elevations and sections and block plan and
specifications of the work proposed to be executed, drawn up in the manner
required by rule 37 in Part II. The licensing authority shall, before
according sanction to the proposed addition or alteration, follow, as far as
may be, the procedure laid down in rule 40 in that Part.

### 79.

(1)The Chief Electrical Inspector or any officer deputed by him, inspecting an
installation under rule 44 in Part II or under rule 94 in Part VI shall, if he
discovers any defect therein, issue written orders to the owner or person in
charge for their rectification and prescribe reasonable time within which such
orders should be carried out.(2)If any further inspection shall in the opinion
of the Chief Electrical Inspector or the officer deputed by him or the
licensing authority have become necessary-(i)owing to the neglect or failure
of the owner or person in charge to carry out any written orders issued under
sub-rule (1), within the time prescribed by the Chief Electrical Inspector or
the officer deputed by him; or(ii)owing to the other reasons to be recorded in
writing a fee of rupees [four hundred] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 934,
Home, dated 28th June 1993.] shall be charged for such further inspection and
such fee shall be paid by the licensee [into a Government treasury under the
head of account referred to in rule 44(1) in Part II of these rules within 15
days from the date of the receipt of a demand from the Chief Electrical
Inspector] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 934, Home, dated 28th June 1993.].

### 79A. [ Licensing of semi-permanent cinemas. [Substituted by G. O. Ms. 934,
dated 28th June 1993.]

(1)The licensing authorities shall permit construction of semi-permanent
cinemas and grant licences for such semi-permanent cinemas. Any such licence
granted shall be valid for a period of five years and shall be subject to the
conditions and restrictions specified in sub-rule (4):Provided that the
licensing authority may extend the validity of the licence by a further period
of two years, to enable its conversion into a permanent cinema. The issue of a
licence to such a cinema thereafter shall be considered by the licensing
authority only if the rules applicable to a permanent cinema are complied
with:Provided further that a semi-permanent cinema located in Panchayat areas
(Panchayats Grade I to III, Selection Grade Panchayat and Town Panchayats
only) where there is scope for running only semi-permanent cinema, shall be
allowed to continue as semi-permanent cinema till it is converted into a
permanent cinema.(2)The provisions of the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Act,
1955 (Tamil Nadu Act IX of 1955) and the rules made thereunder relating to
permanent cinemas shall be applied to the semi-permanent cinemas subject to
the conditions specified in sub-rule (4).(3)[ A licence granted for a semi-
permanent cinema shall lapse at the end of five years.](4)(a)Semi-permanent
cinemas shall be permitted in areas having a total population of less than one
lakh and also not having more than three permanent cinemas already functioning
in [the locality] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 525, Social Welfare, dated the
3rd June 1970.].(b)All public conveniences any ticket counters fitted, with
suitable hand-railing high in front of booking windows to enable the
purchasers of tickets to form up queues, shall be as per the standard required
for the permanent cinemas.(c)The compound walls around the premises shall be
so constructed that the front portion and a portion of the adjacent two sides
shall be masonry construction of sufficient height so as to prevent outsiders
causing inconveniences when the shows are on within the premises With side
wide open and the remaining portion be of barbed wire fencing so that when the
show is on with the side cladding thrown open, it may not give room to
outsiders to peep over the compound wall into the cinemas.(d)The side walls of
the main building shall be dwarf walls 1.05 metres high plastered with lime
mortar or [cement] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1364, Home, dated the 3rd
August, 1992.] over which durable black canvas or tarpaulin curtains shall be
provided so as to shut off light and afford shelter from rain.]Part-
VMaintenance of Premises

### 80.

The licensee shall cause-(1)all windows and other means of ventilation in the
building to be maintained in good order;(2)every part of such building or
place to be maintained in proper sanitary condition;(3)the walls of the
building to be hot lime washed at least once in every six months or to be
painted once in every two years or more often if so prescribed;(4)[ All walls
outside the auditorium to be lined with a washable surface to two metres
height from the ground level so that they can be washed easily and kept clean
always;] [Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated the 30th July
1975.](5)the premises to be thoroughly cleaned and all refuse matters to be
removed at least once in every 24 hours or more often if so prescribed; [* *
*] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No.1653, dated the 13th October 1995.](6)Debugging
operation, regular spraying of residual insecticides against mosquitoes and
fogging with insecticides by fogging machine or mist blower to be carried out
at least once in a month in the auditorium to the satisfaction of the public
health authorities and a permanent record of such operations to be kept.(7)[*
* *] [Sub-rule (7) was inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 1653, Home (Cin.III), dated
the 31st October 1995 and omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 618, dated the 11th July
2002.]

### 81.

(1)The licensee shall provide-(i)a sufficient supply of wholesome drinking
water for the use of persons employed in or frequenting such building; the
quantity and the places and the method of storage and supply being prescribed
by the licensing authority; and(ii)spittoons of such description, in such
numbers and in such places as may be prescribed on the recommendation of the
Health Officer concerned.(2)[* * *] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. 1182, Home, dated
the 19th April 1969.]

### 82.

(1)No passage, gangway, or corridor shall be used as a lock-room and no pegs
or hanging hats, cloaks, etc. shall be allowed therein nor shall any such
passage, gangway or corridor be used for storage purpose or for any purpose
whatever except for exit and entrance from, and to, the auditorium.(2)There
shall be no recesses or projections in the walls of such passage-gangway or
corridors within [1.75 metres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 3999, Home, dated
the 23rd November 1962.] of the ground; light shall be not less than 2 metres
above the ground

### 83.

(1)(a)The licensing authority shall fix the actual number of persons to be
admitted to each class of accommodation provided in the auditorium. The number
shall be arrived at by calculating at the rate of 20 persons per 10 square
metres of floor area in respect of that portion of auditorium which is
provided with chairs having backs and arms, and at the rate of 25 persons per
10 square metres of floor area in respect of any other class of accommodation:
[Provided that not less than ten per cent of the total seat in the auditorium
shall be reserved for the lowest class.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 618,
dated the 17th July 2002.](aa)[ The licensing authority may on application by
the licensee alter the rates of admission for any class of accommodation, if
there has been any change in the amenities provided either in that class of
accommodation or generally in the theatre or for any other valid reasons;]
[Inserted by SRO A-17/2009, dated 20.5.2009, w.r.e.f. 1.1.2007.](b)In
calculating the area under clause (a), the area of the entrances, the
passages, gangways, the stage, the staircases and all places to which the
public are not admitted shall be excluded, but no part of the auditorium from
which a person can watch the exhibition of films shall be excluded.(c)[ (i)
The licensee may revise the rates of admission to theaters located in the
areas, within the Minimum and Maximum rates as detailed below:-] [Substituted
by SRO A-17/2009, dated 20.5.2009, w.r.e.f. 1.1.2007.]Rate of Admission

| A/c Theatre | Non A/c Theatre  
---|---|---  
Municipal Corporation :  
Minimum | Rs. 10/- | Rs. 7/-  
Maximum | Rs. 50/- | Rs. 30/-  
Municipalities :  
Minimum | Rs. 5/- | Rs. 4/-  
Maximum | Rs. 40/- | Rs. 30/-  
Town Panchayats :  
Minimum | Rs. 5/- | Rs. 4/-  
Maximum | Rs. 25/- | Rs. 20/-  
Village Panchayats :  
Minimum | Rs. 5/- | Rs. 4/-  
Maximum | Rs. 15/- | Rs. 10/-  
  
(ii)The licensee shall make an application to the licensing authority for
making necessary endorsement "C" from licence for revision in rates of
admission as per clause (i) above after making endorsement in "C" form
licence, the licensing authority shall return the "C" Form licence to the
licensee.(iii)Subject to .the rates mentioned in (i) above, a licensee may
charge a rate other than the rate endorsed in the "C" from licence, for any
film for a specified period with due advance notice to the licensing authority
and the Commercial Tax authority and with proper endorsement made by the
Licensing Authority in the "C" form licence.(iv)The maximum and minimum rates
of admission to the theatre in the Multiplex provided with the following items
shall be of Rs. 95/- and Rs. 10/- respectively:-

### 1\. Two or more fully air-conditioned theatres.

### 2\. Total Capacity of all theatres not less than 800 seats.

### 3\. Seat with width (pitch) of not less than 20 inches.

### 4\. 100 per cent power back-up by generators.

### 6\. Xenon or digital Projectors.

### 7\. Digital Sound System or DTS.

### 8\. Three Main Speakers.

### 9\. Three way Speakers.

### 10\. Surround speakers system.

### 11\. Toilet Urinals with automatic flush.

### 12\. Air-conditioned Lobby.

### 13\. Computer ticketing.

### 14\. Web ticketing.

### 15\. Home Delivery of Tickets.

(v)The maximum and minimum rates of admission to the theatres in the Multiplex
provided with 10 items out of 15 items mentioned in clause (iv) above
including the following 5 items shall be or Rs. 85/- and Rs. 10/-,
respectively:-(1)Two or more fully air-conditioned theatres.(2)Total capacity
of all theatres not less than 800 seats.(3)100 per cent power back-up by
Generators.(4)Xenon or Digital Projectors.(5)Digital Sound System or
DTS.(vi)The maximum and minimum rates of admission to the theatres in the
Multiplex having more than three theaters with air-condition and with family
entertainment and restaurant facilities shall be of Rs. 120/- and Rs. 10/-
respectively.(d)[ The Government may either suo motu or on receipt of
application from the licensees, order the general revision of rates of
admission to theatre including the theatres in Multiplex considering the
amenities provided therein and the overall escalation of cost in all spheres
related to the running of theatres.] [Substituted by SRO A-17/2009, dated
20.5.2009, w.r.e.f. 1.1.2007.](e)[ If the licensing authority is satisfied
that the licensee has permitted persons in excess of the number as reduced
under clause (d) for the class of accommodation in each part of the
auditorium, the licensing authority may suo motu order the restoration of the
number that existed prior to the reduction in the number sanctioned under
clause (d) after giving the licensee an opportunity to state his case, if any,
within 30 days from the date of receipt of a notice by him addressed to the
cinema address to which the proposal relates and delivered by hand and
acknowledgment obtained.] [Added by G.O. Ms.1970, Home, dated the 19th August
1987.](1A)[ (a) The licensing authority shall fix the actual rates of
admission I to each class of accommodation, provided in the auditorium after
taking into account the proposals of the licensee, the amenities provided in
the theatre, the prevailing rates of admission in similar theatres in similar
localities within his jurisdiction and any other relevant factor.] [Inserted
by G.O. Ms. No. 1248, Home dated 18th May 1979.](b)The rates prescribed for
each class of accommodation in the auditorium shall be clearly indicated by
means of a board or other wise.(c)(i)A licensee may increase the rates of
admission for all classes except the lowest class, after giving notice to the
licensing authority and commercial tax authority:Provided that such
enhancement shall not exceed seventy-five percentage of the rates that excised
on 12.04.2002.(ii)For lowest class, the rates should not exceed Rs. 10 for
cities of Chennai, Tirucharapalli, Madurai, Coimbatore, Salem and Thirunelveli
and Rs. 5 in other places and it shall be so fixed as to be less that the
rates for the next higher class.(iii)A licensee may change rates without any
ceiling being fixed for a period of two weeks from the date of commencement of
exhibition of new film in his theatre after giving notice to the licensing
authority and the commercial tax authority and also after getting entry for
endorsement to the effect in the C form licence from the licensing
authority.(d)[ The Government may either suo moto or on receipt of application
from the licensees, order the general revision of rates of admission in
theatres, considering the overall escalation of cost in all spheres related to
the running of theatres.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 258, dated 8th March
1994.](1-B) The [Joint Commissioner of Land Administration] [Substituted by
G.O. Ms. 989, Home, dated 4th May 1988.] may, either suo motu or on
application by the licensee, revise the order of the licensing authority under
sub-rules (1) and (1-A) after giving the licensee an opportunity of being
heard:[Provided that an appeal against the decision of the licensing authority
shall be preferred within 30 days from, the date of receipt of the order
appealed against. A fee for [Rs. 600 (Rupees six hundred only)] [Substituted
by G.O. Ms. No. 418, 14th March 1996.] shall be paid in respect of each
appeal.][(1-C) The Government may, either suo motu or on an application made
by the licensee revise the order of the appellate authority under sub-rule
(1-B):] [Added by Notification No. SRO A-85/84.][Provided that an application
for revision against the decision of the appellate authority shall be
preferred within 30 days from the dates of receipt of the order of the
appellate authority. A fee for [Rs. 400 (Rupees four hundred only)]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 418,14th March 1996.] shall be paid in respect of
each application for revision.](2)All exit doors shall be kept unbolted during
performance. All the top and bottom bolts of such doors shall, wherever
possible, be capable of operation possible central handle on each pair of
doors.(3)The public may leave at the end of a performance or exhibition by any
exit door.(4)No chair or other obstruction shall be placed in any passage,
gangway or staircase.(5)No person shall be permitted to sit or stand in any
gangway intersecting the seating or to sit in any gangway or between the
screen and the barrier referred to in rule 63 in Part IV.

### 84.

The following provisions shall be observed in providing seating
accommodation:-(1)Chairs shall be battened together in complete lengths.(2)In
all cases, there shall be an intervening space of at least [35 centimetres]
[Substituted by C O. Ms. No. 2612, Home, dated the 4th October 1973.] between
the back of one seat and the front of the seat immediately behind measured
between perpendiculars.(3)Where a curtain is used to cover a doorway, it shall
be so hung as to be easily pulled aside and the bottom edge of the curtain
shall not be less than [7.5 centimetres] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 2612,
Home, dated the 4th October 1973.] above the level of the floor.(4)The area
reserved for floor seats shall have a flooring of damp proof material.(5)[
Benches or chairs shall be provided for the lowest class in all permanent and
semi-permanent cinemas:] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 2612, Home, dated the
4th October 1973.]Provided that nothing contained in this sub-rule shall apply
to a theatre, in which providing of benches or chairs in the lowest class will
involve structural alterations to the theatre, until such time as they are re-
constructed or remodelled.

### 85.

(1)Not more than 200 lb. of cinema film shall be stored in the premises to
which the licence relates, unless a specific licence has been obtained from
the Chief Inspector of Explosives in India as required by the Cinematograph
Film Rules, 1948.(2)The storage of film under sub-rule (1) shall be subject to
the conditions specified in the Schedule to these rules.

### 86.

The door of the enclosure and of any rewinding room and all openings, bushes
and joints shall be so constructed and maintained as to prevent, as far as
possible, the escape of any smoke into the auditorium. Ventilators shall be
provided for the enclosure and for any rewinding room by the ventilation ducts
shall not communicate direct with the auditorium. The area of the ventilating
ducts of the enclosure shall not be less than one per cent of its floor
area.Explanation. - By "bush" is meant packing inserted in the holes through
which the pipes and cables pass in order to render such holes reasonably
smoke-proof.

### 87.

Cinema projectors shall be fitted with two-metal film boxes of substantial
construction to, and from, which the films shall be caused to travel. The film
boxes shall be made to close in such a manner and shall be fitted with a film
slot so constructed as to prevent the passage of flame to the interior of the
box.

### 88.

Film shall be wound upon spools in such a manner that the wound film shall not
at any time reach or project beyond the edges of the flanges of the spool. The
rewinding of films shall not be carried out in the enclosure while an
exhibition is in progress.

### 89.

All films, when not in use, shall be kept in separate closed metal boxes. The
metal boxes shall be of substantial construction, the plate used being not
less than [0.56 millimetres] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. 3999, Home, dated 3rd
November 1968.] thickness. Each box shall have a hinged cover secured by hasp
and staple. A rack shall be provided for storing the closed metal boxes
without piling. Films shall not be stored in any part of a building which is
at a lower level than any other part thereof used for residential purposes.

### 90.

(1)A plan (in single line) of wiring shall always be kept in a prominent place
in the office of the manager. The plan should conform, as far as may be, to
the model wiring diagram appended to these rules.(2)[ In all cinema premises,
sufficient number of approved electric lights fed from an independent source,
or sources which are automatically switched on in case of failure of main
lighting shall be provided in the auditorium, gangways, passages and exits:]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 574, Home, dated 29th February 1968.]Provided that
this rule shall not apply to the existing cinema premises until 1st July
1968.Explanation. - The expression "independent source" will include "Battery
sets".(3)Whenever any illuminant other than electricity is used for the
lantern, its use and the apparatus for its production shall be subject to the
approval of licensing authority.(4)Ordinarily, no open or naked lights shall
be allowed, but if the nature of the performance or exhibition absolutely
necessitates the use of naked lights, this fact shall be mentioned when an
application is made for a licence.(5)Where it is intended to use open or naked
lights in any performance or exhibition, notice of such fact shall be given at
least 48 hours prior to the performance or exhibition to the Fire Service and
Rescue Department in places where, there axe fire brigades so that additional
precautions may be taken.

### 91.

(1)The following fire extinguishing appliances shall be provided:-(A)[ In the
enclosure- [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 934, Home, dated 28th June
1993.](i)In the projection room. - One portable soda acid fire extinguisher
and one dry chemical powder fire extinguisher, one bucket of water one bucket
of sand and an asbestos blanket or woollen blanket of size 1.8 m. x 0.9
m;](ii)In the Rewinding Room. - One portable soda acid fire extinguisher and a
bucket with water. A can containing water not less than 10 cm. deep in it
shall also be provided near rewinding table for depositing the film clippings.
The can shall have a self closing type of lid.(B)[ In the electrical motor
room or switch gear room. - One dry chemical powder fire extinguisher:]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1713, Home, dated 12 July 1985.]Provided that
the existing carbon-di-oxide fire extinguishers shall be continued till their
life time or condemnation;](C)[ In the Auditorium: [Substituted by G. O. Ms.
No. 1713, Home, dated 12 July 1985.](1)(i)Three portable soda acid fire
extinguishers (two for auditorium and one for stage) and supply of not less
than twenty-five litres of water per ten square metres of floor area shall be
stored in the manner laid down in sub-clause (ii).(ii)Two hundred litres of
water shall be stored inside the auditorium in twenty bucket confirming to
sub-rule (2) and the balance stored in tanks or cisterns of any capacity so
arranged as to be easily accessible to the satisfaction of the Chief
Electrical Inspector to Government.](2)These appliances shall be so disposed
as to be readily available for use. The buckets shall have round bottoms and
handles and shall be 12.5 litres capacity each to hold not less than 12 litres
of water. They shall be painted red with the word "FIRE" painted on them in
large block letters in English and Tamil.(3)The fife extinguishers shall
conform to the relevant Indian Standards mentioned against each below and
shall be of the following sizes namely:-(a)Soda acid type shall be of [9
litres] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. 934, dated 28th June 1993.] size
I.S.934.(b)[ Dry chemical powder shall be of 5 Kilogram size or above, I.S.
2171-1985:] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. 3436, Home, dated 1st December
1986.]Provided that if the capacities of the existing portable fire
extinguishers are of capacities other than those given above, they shall be
continued till their life time or condemnation.(c)Carbon-di-oxide type shall
be of 2 kilograms-I.S. 2878.The maintenance, inspection and testing of the
portable fire extinguishers shall be done in accordance with the provisions of
I.S. 2190-1979. Record of maintenance, inspection and testing of fire
extinguishers shall be maintained in a register in the form provided in
Appendix-B to the said Indian Standards issued by the Bureau of Indian
Standards.(4)The pressure or leakage tests of all types of fire extinguishers
shall be carried out at intervals maintained against each fire extinguisher at
a pressure and for a period mentioned against them in Table below, as per
clauses 10.4.2 of I.S. 2190-1979.

Type of Fire Extinguisher | Test Interval | Test Pressure | Period for which pressure maintained  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1\. Soda Acid | 3 years | 1.75 MN/M21.75 Pa. (17. 5 kg Cm2) | 2.5 minutes  
2\. Dry Chemical Powder (Gas cartridge) | 3 years | 1.75MN/M21.75 Pa. (17.5 kg cm') | 2.5 minutes  
  
The periodical pressure or leakage tests shall be carried out by Electrical
Inspectorates or by the manufacturing companies of fire extinguishers or by
private engineering test houses authorised by the Chief Electrical Inspector
to Government. Certificate showing the results of the tests should be
submitted to Electrical Inspector.(5)Not less than four stirrup pumps and 3
buckets filled with water shall be provided if there is no gallery, or first
floor, or balcony in the premises and not less than 6 stirrup pumps and 12
buckets filled with water shall be provided if there is a gallery or first
floor or balcony in the premises in which case, at least two stirrup pumps and
4 buckets filled with water shall be kept in the gallery or fist floor or
balcony.(6)The licensee shall stock not less than 1 spare refill together with
requirement amount of chemicals for each of the soda acid and dry chemical
powder fire extinguisher. The refill shall conform to the Indian Standard I.S.
5490.(7)The fire extinguishers and stirrup pumps shall be mounted on walls in
such way that the handle is at a height of not more than 1.5 metres above the
floor level. The fire extinguisher and stirrup pump shall be easily accessible
and the passage leading to the fire extinguisher shall not be obstructed in
any way. The fire fighting appliances in the auditorium shall be located in
the manner as not to obstruct the passage aisles or reduce their width in any
way.(8)Attendants and staffs shall be trained in the use of all fire fighting
equipment maintained in the premises.

### 91A. [ [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 1742, Home, dated the 9th July 1986.]

In all permanent cinema buildings, fire detectors shall be provided in the
auditorium to flash a visual signal and sound and audible warning immediately
on the rise in the inside temperature being caused by a fire. Water sprinklers
shall also be installed in the auditorium. The water sprinklers shall be
linked with the said fire detectors as to spray water automatically, whenever
the fire detectors give an alarm.]

### 91B. [ [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 678, dated the 18th May 1999.]

The licensee of a cinema theatre may collect a fee for parking vehicles in the
premises of the cinema theatre specified in the Table below:

| Area | Fee to be collected  
---|---|---  
| (1) | (2)  
|  | Car/ Three Wheeler Vehicles (Motor) | Two Wheeler (Motor) | Cycles  
|  | (a) | (b) | (c)  
|  | Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs. P.  
1. |  Corporation/ District Head Quarters, Grade IMunicipalities | 3.00 | 2.00 | 1.00  
2. | Municipalities other than Grade-I Municipalities | 2.50 | 2.00 | 1.00  
3. | Town Panchayats/ Village Panchayats. | 2.00 | 1.00 | 0.50]  
  
Part-VIRenewals

### 92. [ [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1311, Home, dated 9th September 1996.]

(1)Every application for the renewal of the licence shall be made one month
before the expiry of the existing licence. Such application shall be
accompanied by-(i)a declaration referred to in item (2) in rule 41 in Part
II.(ii)a treasury receipt for payment of fees at the prescribed
rates.(iii)evidence of having insured the cinema building machinery, etc.
against fire hazards [and an evidence of having insured the audience with an
insurance company against the insurer's liability for payment of compensation
to the victims of fire or other accidents inside the auditorium.](iv)evidence
from commercial tax authorities that there is no tax due under the Tamil Nadu
Entertainment Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) and the Tamil Nadu
Local Authority Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1951).(v)Evidence from
the local Authority that there is no property tax due in respect of the site
and building of the cinema theatre under the madras city Municipal Corporation
Act 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act of 1920) or the Tamil Nadu Panchayath Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) or the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act,
1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981) or the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation
Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981) or the Tiruchirapalli City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1994) or the Tirunelvali City
Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1994) or the Salem City
Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1994) as the case may
be.(vi)A certified copy of the referred to in item (5) in rule 41, in the Part
II and a sworn affidavit by the applicant to the effect that the said deed is
valid till date; and(vii)Permission from the Commissioner, Hindu religious and
charitable Endowments, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
for the leasing out of the land to the applicant, if such land is within the
jurisdiction of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments
Department.[Provided that an application for renewal of licensee may be
entertained by the licensing authority on or before the date of Existing
license on payment of late fee of [Rs. 2,000 (Rs. two thousand only) for the
permanent cinemas and Rs. 1,500 (Rupees one thousand five hundred only)]
[Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1855, dated the 19th December 1996.] for travelling
cinemas.](2)A copy of every such application shall be sent simultaneously to
the Chief Electrical Inspector and the [Public Works Department Authority
concerned;] [Substituted G. O. Ms. No.1357 Cinema, dated the 8th September
1993.][* * *] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. 44, Home, dated the 7th January 1991.]

### 93.

For every licence when renewed a fee shall be charged according to the scale
laid down in rule 43 in Part II. In the case of refusal of the renewal of a
licence, the provisions regarding refund in sub-rule (iv) of that rule shall
apply.

### 93A. [ [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 1054, Home, dated the 10th July 2007.]

An application for renewal of licence may be entertained by the licensing
authority within a period of one month after the expiry of the existing
licence period. On payment of a penalty of Rs. 1,500 (Rupees one thousand and
five hundred only) for permanent and semi permanent cinemas and Rs. 1,000
(Rupees one thousand only) for the travelling cinemas in addition to the
licence fee prescribed in rule 43 and the late fee prescribed in rule 92.]

### 94. [ [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 1081, Home dated the 12th April 1972.]

At every renewal of the Chief Electrical Inspector's certificate the
enclosure, cinema apparatus and plant, electrical installation and fire pre-
cautionary measures, shall be inspected by the Chief Electrical Inspector or
an officer deputed by him who will certify that the installations continue to
be maintained in proper working order according to the rules.]

### 95.

[(1) For the inspection under rule 94 before renewal of certificate,]
[Substituted by Vide G.O. Ms. No. 2867, Home, dated the 12th October 1969.] [a
fee of rupees Rs. 400 (four hundred per year only)] [Substituted by Vide G.O.
Ms. No. 250, Home, dated the 7th August 1963.] [* * *] [The words 'at the rate
of Rs. 75 per year' were omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 19, Home, dated the 5th
January 1987.] shall be paid into a Government Treasury under the head of
account specified in rule 44 under Part II and the treasury receipt furnished
direct to the Chief Electrical Inspector. The treasury receipt shall reach the
office of the Chief Electrical Inspector three months before the expiry of the
period of date of validity of the certificate.(2)If the treasury receipt is
not furnished within the period referred to in sub-rule (1), a penalty of [Rs.
150 (Rupees One hundred and fifty)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. 1152, Home, dated
the 27th July 1993.] for a delay of each month or fraction thereof shall also
be paid into a Government treasury to the credit of the Government and
treasury receipt relating to the payment of the penalty shall be furnished to
the Chief Electrical Inspector along with the treasury receipt relating to the
payment of the fee for the inspection.

### 96.

On receipt of the Chief Electrical Inspector's certificate duly renewed, the
licensing authority or an officer not below the rank of Deputy Tahsildar or an
Inspector of Police in the City of Chennai) deputed by him shall inspect and
satisfy that all the rules including rule 55 in Part IV and rules 80 and 81 in
Part V for sanitation are observed before the licence is renewed:Provided that
where the Chief Electrical Inspector's certificate is renewed for a period
less than three years at a time, no such inspection shall be necessary if one
has taken place within a period of three years preceding the date of the
certificate.

### 96A.

[(1) For renewal of certificate of structural soundness of the building, the
licensee shall at least one month prior to the date of expiry of the period
specified in the said certificate, make an application to the Executive
Engineer, if the age of the building is less than fifty years and to the
Superintending Engineer, Planning and Designs Circle, if the age of the
building is fifty years and above together with the treasury receipt for the
payment of fees prescribed:] [Substituted G.O Ms. No. 1357, Home (Cinema),
dated the 8th September 1993.]Provided that in the case of a building which is
fifty years and above, for subsequent renewals, the application shall be made
to any other Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineer of the concerned
territorial circle as may be authorised by the Superintending Engineer,
Planning and Designs Circle in this behalf.(2)On receipt of the application
referred to in sub-rule (1), the Executive Engineer or the Superintending
Engineer, Planning and Designs Circle or any other officer authorised by the
latter, as the case may be, shall, after an inspection of the building, renew
or refuse to renew the said certificate within a period of one month from the
date of receipt of the application, and(3)The provisions of rule 40 relating
to the issue of certificate of structural soundness shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the renewal of such certificate.(4)[ The proceedings of the
Executive Engineer or the Superintending Engineer, Planning and Designs Circle
or any other officer authorised by the latter as the case may be, renewing or
refusing to renew the said certificate shall be sent to the licensing
authority with a copy to the applicant.] [Substituted G.O Ms. No.1357, Home
(Cinema), dated the 8th September 1993.]

### 97.

[(1) If, on an application for the renewal of a licence made under rule 92,
the licensing authority does not for any reason before the date of expiry of
the licence, either renew and return the licence or refuse to renew the same,
he shall grant a temporary permit in Form "E" provided that the Chief
Electrical Inspector's certificate and the structural soundness certificate
continues to remain valid.] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 2290, Home, dated
31st October 1983.] [The issue of such temporary permit shall be considered by
the licensing authority on production of a certificate by the applicant from
the Commercial Tax Authorities that there is no tax due from the applicant
under the Tamil Nadu Entertainment Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939)
and the Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of
1961):] [Added by G.O Ms. 611, Home (Cinema), dated 24th February
1988.][Provided that it shall be sufficient if a certificate from the
Commercial Tax Authority referred to in sub rule (1) is produced once in three
month.] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 145, Home (Cinema), dated the 31st January
1997.](2)Such temporary permit shall be subject to the conditions of the
licence sought to be renewed, and shall be valid for a period of one month
from the date of the grant thereof and may be renewed by the licensing
authority for further period of one month at a time:Provided that the
temporary permit shall cease to be valid and shall be surrendered to the
licensing authority on the applicant receiving the licence duly renewed or on
his receiving an order refusing to renew the licence:Provided further that the
temporary permit shall be surrendered to the licensing authority on demand
made at any time in that behalf.(3)[ A fee of Rs. 200 (Rupees two hundred
only) shall be collected for grant of such temporary permit for permanent and
semi-permanent cinemas and Rs. 100 (Rupees one hundred only) for travelling
cinemas.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1054, Home, dated the 10th July
2007.](4)The temporary permit shall during the period of its validity, be
deemed to be a licence for the purpose of these rules.Part-VII [Travelling
Cinemas] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated 12th November 1987.]

### 98.

The rules in this Part and the following rules shall apply to travelling
cinemas:-(i)[ Parts I-A, III and IIIA - All rules.] [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No.
2307, Home, dated 20th August, 1986.](ii)Part IV-Rules [50] [This expression
was inserted by G. O. Ms. 1992, Home, dated 23rd September 1983.], 63, 65, 66,
67, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 76 and 77.(iii)Part V-Rules 80(1), (2) and (4),
81, 83(1)(a), (3), (4) and (5), 84(2), 86, 87,88 and 89.(iv)Part IV-Rules 92
and 97.

### 99. [ [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2679, dated the 26th October 1979.]

In this Part-(a)"building" shall mean and include any booth, or building with
roofing of bituminous, asphalt, asbestos or zinc sheets with iron poles or
with wooden poles and rafters duly coated with fire-resistant paint and
fixed-, with nails or screws or bolts and should be leak-proof;
and(b)[travelling cinema] shall mean-(i)an outfit comprising the cinema
apparatus and plant and enclosure taken from place to place in the State of
Tamil Nadu for giving cinema exhibitions, or(ii)an outfit comprising cinema
apparatus and plant taken from place to place in the State of Tamil Nadu for
conducting shows in the local theatres or halls.]

### 100.

A person who intends to build a [travelling cinema] [This expression was
inserted by G. O. Ms. 1992, Home, dated 23rd September 1983.] building shall
follow the procedure in rule 35 in Part 11(a). A treasury receipt for payment
of fee of [Rs. 500 (Rupees Five hundred only)] [Substituted for 'Rs. 300
(Rupees three hundred only)' by G.O. Ms. No. 1054, Home (Cinema- II), dated
the 10th July 2007.] for construction of building and installation of
machinery at the rates prescribed by the local authority shall also be sent
with the application.

### 100A. [ [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 281, Home, dated the 21st August 1981.]

On receipt of the application, the licensing authority shall follow the
procedure prescribed in rule 35-A in Part 11(a).]

### 101.

(1)The building shall be provided on all its sides with an open space which in
no part thereof shall be less than [18 metres] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 936,
Home, dated the 28th June 1993.] in width.(2)[ The building shall have a road
frontage on the public thoroughfare upon which the site of such building
abuts;] [Inserted by G.O. Ms.No. 2156, Home, dated the 30th September
1988.](3)There shall be suitable means of entrance and exit for the public in
such frontage.(4)The eaves of the building shall have a height of not less
than 2.50 metres.

### 102. [ [These rules were substituted for rule 102 by G.O. Ms. No. 1654,
dated 15th December 1999.]

The licensee shall provide such sanitary convenience as may be prescribed by
the licensing authority for the exclusive use of each sex according to the
scale laid down in rule 55 of Part IV and shall cause the same to be
maintained in good order and sanitary condition.

### 102A.

(1)The licensee shall provide such number of approved artificial ventilation
equipments as required by the licensing authority. The standard for
ventilation shall be 28 cubic meters of fresh air per seat per
hour.(2)Protection guards shall be provided for ceiling fans with less than
2.25 meters clearance; the height between the guard and the floor shall not be
less than 2.20 meters.]

### 102B. [ [These rules there substituted for rule 102 by G.O. Ms. No. 1654,
dated 15th December 1999.]

The licensee shall provide a suitable cycle stand constructed with a
nonflammable roofing and make arrangements for the safety of the cycles.]

### 103.

[(1) A licence shall not be granted if the building is constructed in whole or
part, of material which is inflammable.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2679,
Home, dated the 26th October 1979.](2)The building in which the [travelling
cinema] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th November
1987.] is located shall be at a minimum distance of-(i)36.5 metres from the
nearest house or other buildings;(ii)1.2 metres from the nearest conductor of
power lines upto and inclusive of 11K.V and 2 metres from the nearest
conductor of power lines above 11 K.V and inclusive of 33 K.V (2 meters plus
0.3. meter for every additional 33 K.V and part thereof above 33 K.V from the
fencing of the theatre.)(iii)0.201 Kilometre from a temple or maidan where
fireworks are displayed on festivals and special occasions or factories,
workshops, etc., and where fire is used for ignition, processing, etc. and
sparks escape through chimney or any other outlet.(iv)[100 metres away]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2474, Home, dated the 27th September 1982.] from
any building or other structures where fireworks or gun powder is stored or
manufactured.(3)There shall be a minimum distance of 0.201 Kilometre (one
furlong) between the Community Radio Centre and the [travelling cinema]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th November 1987.] in
places where Community Radio Set operates:Provided that the licensing
authority may relax the requirements in this sub-rule in very exceptional
cases:Provided further that no power line shall pass over any part of the
fenced area.

### 104. [ [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1295, Home, dated the 24th April
1990.]

In every building there shall be on each side an aperture at least 2.25 metres
high and 5.5 metres wide. This aperture may be closed by tatties fixed on
split bamboo frame and fastened by twine inside.]

### 105.

Doors and apertures not ordinarily in use may be made of or covered or closed
by mat, screen or similar material which can be removed by a light pressure
from inside the building.

### 106. [ [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1295, Home, dated the 24th April
1990.]

(1)After consideration of the application made under rule 100, with reference
to the matters specified in section 5(1) of the Act, and the objections of the
local authority or the police, the licensing authority shall grant a no
objection certificate in Form "B" or may refuse to grant it within one month
after the receipt of the remarks of the local authority and the police or
within fifteen days of the receipt of a further report where such a report has
to be obtained. A copy of the order shall be communicated to the applicant and
of the persons, if any, who have filed objections before the licensing
authority.(1-A) The grant of no objection certificate is necessary for the
construction of a new [travelling cinema] building.(2)The no objection
certificate issued by the licensing authority shall be valid for a period of
six months. If within this period, the proposed cinema is not put up, a fresh
no objection certificate should be applied for:[Provided that the licensing
authority in genuine cases and for reasons to be recorded in writing, may
extent the period of validity of no objection certificate or relax the
conditions already imposed in the said certificate up to a maximum period of 3
months beyond the date of expiry of the original validity, on receipt of an
application for the same from the applicant. A fee of [Rs. 250 (Rupees two
hundred and fifty only)] [Proviso was substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1861, dated
the 11th December 1995.] shall be paid in respect of each application and a
treasury receipt for the amount of the fee shall be submitted along with the
application.][The Licensing authority shall send the report in Form "L" for
extension of validity no objection certificate or for relaxation of the
condition already imposed in the no objection certificate and in Form "M" for
exemption from the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957.] [Substituted
by G.O Ms. No. 2927, Home, dated the 3rd December 1985.]Explanation. - For the
purpose of this sub-rule, durations covered by stay order of the Commissioner
of Land Administration or of [the Government] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 3010,
Home, dated 7th December 1979.] or of the High Court reckoned from the date of
passing the order of stay to the date of pronouncement of the final orders
vacating the stay should be excluded in calculating the period of validity of
the no objection certificate.(3)[ On receipt of the no objection certificate
referred to in sub-rule (1) above applicant shall submit an application for
approval of the plan of the building to be constructed in the approved site
along with complete plans, elevations, sections (in duplicate) of the premises
and of all erections or buildings thereon drawn, correctly to a scale of one
centimetre to a metre. The licensing authority shall issue an order approving
the plans with such modifications as may considered necessary by him.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2443, Home, dated 17th August 1960.](4)Any person
aggrieved by the order of the licensing authority granting or refusing to
grant a no objection certificate or refusing to extend the validity of the no
objection certificate may appeal to the Commissioner of Land Administration.
The rules in Part III shall apply to such appeals.]

### 106A.

[* * *] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 281, Home, dated the 7th February 1981.]

### 107.

On completion of building according to the approved plan, the applicant shall
submit his application for licence to the licensing authority. The application
shall be accompanied by-(i)a certificate from the Chief Electrical Inspector
and a declaration prescribed in rules 40(2) (i) and 41(2), respectively, in
Part II;(ii)a treasury receipt for the payment of fees for licence at the rate
prescribed in rule 110; and(iii)[ a evidence of having insured the cinema
building, etc., against fire hazards, and an evidence of having insured the
audience with an insured company against the insurers liability for payment of
compensation to the victims of fire or other accidents inside the auditorium.]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1811, dated 4th December 1995.]

### 108.

On receipt of the application for licence together with the Electrical
Certificate and declaration referred to in rule 107, the licensing authority
shall issue to the applicant a licence in Form "C" for the period covered by
the Chief Electrical Inspector's certificate or refuse to issue such licence
within a period not exceeding one month from the date of its receipt. A copy
of the order shall be communicated to the applicant and to the persons, if
any, who have filed objections before the licensing authority.

### 109.

(1)No [travelling cinema] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated 5th
May 1975.] shall be licensed to exhibit shows in any place for a period longer
than five years, subject to the condition that the certificates regarding
structural soundness, electrical installation and use of non-inflammable
materials are produced every year.(1-A) The licence shall be granted initially
for one year and it may be renewed for further periods not exceeding one year
each, subject, however, to the total period of [five years] [Substituted by G.
O. Ms. No. 773, Home, dated 5th May 1975.] prescribed in sub-rule (1) if after
inspection as contemplated in rule 113, the licensing authority is satisfied
that the site and the building continue to confirm to the relevant rules and
the building is structurally sound:Provided that if the licence is granted or
renewed for a period of less than one year or if renewal is refused, it shall
be for reasons to be recorded in writing and communicated to the
applicant.(2)After the period of [five years] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.
773, Home, dated the 5th May 1975.] exhibition as contemplated in sub-rule (1)
there shall be a minimum interval of three months before the same site is
again licensed:[Provided that the same applicant who proposes to run a
[travelling cinema] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 200, Home, dated the 29th
January 1981.] again for the subsequent term in the same site, shall produce
the necessary certificates required under rule 107, along with the application
for the licence.](3)Where the licensing authority is satisfied that any
break/breaks in the period for which the licence was granted is/are not due to
the fault of the licensee, such break/breaks may be excluded for the purpose
of computing the said period of [five years] [Substituted by C. O. Ms. No.
773, Home, dated the 5th May 1975.].

### 110.

[(1) (a) For every licence when granted or renewed, a fee shall be charged
according to the scale laid down below:-For a temporary licence for a period
not exceeding one year for a building. Rupees Three hundred for a period of
one year for an area of 100 square metres or less with an additional fee of
Rs. 150 for every 50 square metres or fraction thereof, in excess of 100
square metres subject to a minimum of [Rs. 1,500 (Rupees one thousand five
hundred only)] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1652, Home, dated the 31st
October 1995.].The licensing authority shall collect the licence fee in
proportion to the period for which the licence is granted or renewed. For a
temporary licence for a period not exceeding three months for a building not
thatched nor constructed of inflammable materials falling under item (ii) of
clause (B) of rule 99. Rupees fifty for a month or for a portion thereof for
an area of 100 squares metres or less with an additional fee of Rs. 25 for a
month or for a portion thereof for every 50 square metres or fraction thereof
in excess of 100 square metres.](b)Duplicate of a licence may be granted on
payment of a fee of [Rs. 500 (Rupees five hundred only)] [Substituted by G. O.
Ms. No. 1054, Home, dated the 10th July 2007.].(2)One half of the fee shall be
credited to the local authority concerned excluding panchayats.(3)[ Every
application for the grant of renewal of licence shall be accompanied by-(i)a
treasury receipt for payment of fees at prescribed rates; and(ii)an evidence
of having insured the cinema building, machinery, etc., against Ere hazards
and evidence of having insured the audience with an insurance company against
the insurance liability for payment of compensation to the victims oi tire or
other accident inside the auditorium.](4)In case of refusal of the grant or
renewal of a licence, a refund at the rate of one-half of the total amount of
the fee collected, may be made to the applicant. The application for such
refund shall, however, be made by the applicant within one month from the date
of receipt of the orders of rejection of his application for grant or renewal
of licence. The refund shall be made after the expiry of the period of appeal
or after the disposal of the appeal if one has been presented.

### 111.

For the inspection of the enclosure, cinema apparatus and plant, electric
installation, fire-fighting and precautionary measures when first erected [a
fee of Rs. 450 (Rupees four hundred and fifty)] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.
1054, Home, dated the 10th July 2007.], shall be paid in advance by the
applicant for the licence into a Government treasury under the head of account
referred to in rule 44(1) of Part II of these rules.

### 112.

(1)For the renewal of the electrical certificate a fee of [Rs. 200 (Rupee two
hundred only)] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1054, Home, dated the 10th July
2007.] shall be paid in advance into the Government treasury and the treasury
receipt together with an application for renewal be furnished to the Chief
Electrical Inspector, three months before the date of expiry of the period of
validity of that certificate.(2)If the treasury receipt is not furnished
within the period aforesaid, a penalty of one-third of the fee specified above
for a delay of each month or fraction thereof shall also be paid into a
Government treasury to the credit of the Government and the treasury receipt
relating to the payment of the penalty shall be furnished to the Chief
Electrical Inspector along with the treasury receipt relating to the payment
of the fee for the inspection.(3)The electrical certificate shall cease to be
valid when the. cinema apparatus and the plant of the [travelling cinema]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated 12th November 1987.] are
shifted to a different theatre or hall.(4)[ (i) The Chief Electrical Inspector
or any officer deputed by him inspecting an installation, before the issue of
a certificate in Form "D" or before the renewal thereof shall, if he discovers
any defects therein, issue written orders to the owner or person in charge for
its rectification and prescribe a reasonable time within which such orders
shall be carried out.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2370, Home, dated the
21st August 1959.](ii)If any further insertion shall, in the opinion of the
Chief Electrical Inspector or the Officer deputed by him or the licensing
authority have become necessary-(a)owing to the neglect or failure of the
owner or person in charge to carry out any written orders issued under clause
(i) within the time prescribed by the Chief Electrical Inspector or the
Officer deputed by him; or(b)owing to other reasons to be recorded in writing-
a fee of [rupees two hundred] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 2509, Home, dated
the 7th August 1966.] shall be charged for such further inspection and such
fee shall be paid by the licensee into Government treasury under the head of
account referred to in rule 44(i) of Part II of these rules, within fifteen
days form the date of the receipt of a demand from the Chief Electrical
Inspector.(5)The Chief Electrical Inspector's certificate in Form "D" shall be
valid for a period of one year in the first instance and may be renewed for
further periods not exceeding one year each:Provided that where the grant or
the renewal of the certificate is for a period of less than one year or
renewal is refused it shall be for reasons to be recorded in writing and
communicated to the applicant.

### 113. [ [Substituted by G. O Ms. No. 168, Home dated the 23rd January
1980.]

On receipt of the Chief Electrical Inspector's Certificate duly renewed, the
licensing authority, or an officer not below the rank of Deputy Tahsildar or
an Inspector of Police in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.
1811, dated 4th December 1995.] deputed by him shall inspect at the beginning
of every year and satisfy that all the rules are observed before the licence
is renewed:Provided that where the Chief Electrical Inspector's Certificate is
renewed for a period less than one year at a time, or when the Film Division
Certificate is not valid for the entire remaining period, or when the
documentary evidence to prove the legal possession is not valid for the entire
remaining period, or when the licence fee is remitted for a shorter period, no
such inspection shall be necessary, if the inspection has already taken place
within a period of one year preceding the date of Film Division Certificate,
or the Chief Electrical Inspector's Certificate, or the date becomes invalid
on which the documentary evidence to prove the legal possession or the date of
remittance of licence fee, as the case maybe.]

### 114.

The number prescribed under rule 83(l)(a) in part V in respect of the
auditorium shall not exceed the following limit:-The number arrived at by
calculating at the rate of 25 persons per 10 square metre of floor area, after
making the exclusions referred to in that rule.

### 114A. [ [Rule 114-A was inserted G.O. Ms. 936, dated the 28th June 1993.]

(1)Benches or chairs shall be provided for the lowest class in all [travelling
cinemas.](2)Chairs shall be attended together in complete lengths and also
attached to the grounds.(3)The gangways shall be not less than 1.25 meters in
width and shall be so arranged that no seat shall be at a distance of more
than ten seats from a gangway.(4)There shall be a passage for every ten rows
of seating accommodation and it shall be not less than 1 metre in width.]

### 115. [ [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2679, Home, dated the 26th October
1979.]

### 3\.

(1)The following fire-extinguishing appliances shall be provided:-(a)In the
enclosure-One soda acid fire extinguisher, one bucket of water, one bucket
filled with sand and woollen blanket of adequate size.(b)In the
auditorium-(i)4 soda acid type fire extinguishers and supply of not less than
50 litres of water per 10 square metre of floor-area shall be stored in two
permanent masonry or RCC tanks, one on either side of the auditorium.(ii)20
number of 12 = litres capacity buckets which shall be of round-bottom each to
contain not less than 10 litres of water;(iii)at least 4 stirrup pumps and 8
buckets filled with water. (2) All the extinguishers and fire buckets in the
auditorium shall be located in a manner so as not to obstruct the passage or
reduce their width in any way.]

### 115A.

(1)If a [travelling cinema] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the
12th November 1987.] building is damaged or destroyed by lire after the grant
of a no objection certificate in Form "B" but before the issue of a licence in
Form "C", the licensing authority may, after giving the applicant to whom the
no objection certificate has been granted, an opportunity to show cause
against revocation of no objection certificate, revoke the no objection
certificate.(2)If a [travelling cinema] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2643,
Home, dated the 12th November 1987.] building is damaged or destroyed by fire
after the grant of the licence in Form "C", the licensing authority may, after
giving the licensee an opportunity to show cause against the revocation of the
licence, revoke the licence.(3)Where the licensing authority revokes the
licence under sub-rule (2) he may, at his discretion, order refund of the
proportionate licence fee for the unexpired period of the licence.(4)Where the
no objection certificate in Form "B" or the licence in Form "C" has been
revoked by a licensing authority under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), the
applicant whose no objection certificate has been revoked or the licensee
whose licence has been revoked, as the case may be, may apply for the grant of
a fresh no objection certificate for the same site, following the procedure in
rule 35 in Part 11(a).(5)In regard to an application preferred under sub-rule
(4), the licensing authority shall take de nova proceedings for the grant of a
fresh no objection certificate.(6)The licensing authority shall, in deciding
whether to grant or refuse a fresh no objection certificate, have regard to
the following matters, in addition to those specified in section 5(1) of the
Act:-(i)Whether the site is vulnerable to fire accident or not; and(ii)Whether
it would be in the public interest to allow a cinema to run on the same site
by the same applicant.(7)After consideration of the application made under
sub-rule (4), the licensing authority may grant a fresh no objection
certificate in From "B" or may refuse to grant the same. He shall also issue
an order approving or not approving the plan of the building to be constructed
in the approved site without unreasonable delay. A copy of the order shall be
communicated to the applicant and to the persons, if any, who have filed
objections before the licensing authority.(8)If a [travelling cinema]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th November 1987.]
building is completely damaged and the shed falls down on account of heavy
rain or wind after the grant of a licence in Form "C" the licensing authority
may, after giving the licensee an opportunity to show cause against the
revocation of the licence, revoke the licence. The licensing authority may
grant a fresh licence in Form "C" on an application made with an electrical
certificate after satisfying himself that the rules relating to the grant of
licence in Form "C" are satisfied.(9)Any person aggrieved by the decision of
the licensing authority revoking the no objection certificate or the licence
or granting or refusing to grant a fresh no objection certificate may appea 1
to the [Joint Commissioner of Land Administration.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
989, Home, dated 4th May 1988.] The rules in Part III shall apply to such
appeals.(10)[ An application for revision shall lie to the Government against
the orders of the [Joint Commissioner of Land Administration] [Added by G.O.
Ms. No. 3010, Home, dated 7th December 1979.] in such cases. The rules in Part
III-A shall apply to such application for revision.]Part-VIIICinema
Exhibitions in Educational or Industrial Establishments and in the Open Air

### 116.

The rules in this Part and rule 8 in Part I will apply to the cinematograph
exhibitions in-(a)educational institutions;(b)industrial and business
establishments;(c)open air cinemas.

### 117.

The electrical equipment shall be initially inspected by the Chief Electrical
Inspector or an officer deputed by him who shall send a report to the
licensing authority within a period not exceeding one month from the date of
receipt of application. A fee of rupees twenty-five shall be paid into a
Government treasury to the credit of the Government and the treasury receipt
furnished to the Chief Electrical Inspector. But, 35 mm projector
installations, which show feature films and admit the general public, shall be
inspected once in every year and their electrical certificates renewed.

### 118.

The licensing authority may grant a free licence in Form "F" within two weeks
from the date of receipt of the report referred to in rule 117.

### 119.

While granting licences for open air cinemas, the licensing authority shall
take into consideration the interest of permanent and [travelling cinemas]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. 2643, Home, dated 12th November 1987.] in the
neighbour hood. [The licensing authority shall not permit exhibition of
feature film in streets and public places. The licensing authority may,
however, permit the exhibition of Government documentary films, advertisement
films and news reels in public places.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 2172, Home,
dated 31st August 1979.]Part-IXTransfer or Assignment of Licence in Form "C"
and [No Objection Certificate] [Inserted by G O. Ms. No. 1913, Home, dated the
13th July 1973.]

### 120.

When the holder of a licence in Form "C" desires to transfer or assign his
licence to some other person, he shall, together with the person to whom he
desires to make the transfer or assignment, make a joint application in
writing to the licensing authority, which granted the licence, setting forth
the reasons for the proposed transfer or assignment, and giving the
particulars required in Form "I" (Section I).

### 121. [ [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2810, Home, dated 12th November 1979.]

Where the holder of a licence is dead, any one of the legal heirs to the
licence may, within a period of six months from the date of the death of the
holder of the licence, make an application to the licensing authority for the
transfer of the licence in his/her name, giving the particulars required in
Form "I" (Section II).][Provided that the licensing authority may admit an
application for transfer of the licence preferred within a period of two
months after the expiry of the prescribed period of six months aforesaid, if
sufficient cause is shown for not preferring the application for transfer of
the licence within the prescribed period:] [Added by G.O. Ms. No.1538, Home
(Cine III), 15th December 1994.]Provided further that the licensing authority
may also admit an application for transfer of licence preferred after a period
of Eight months aforesaid, if the theatre is running without any break and is
sufficient cause to shown for not preferring an application for transfer of
licence within the said period, on payment of an additional fee of [Rs. 1,500
(Rupees one thousand and five hundred only)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No.
1054, Home (Cinema-II), dated the 10th July 2007.].

### 122.

(1)For the transfer of assignment of a licence, a fee shall be charged as
follows:-(a)Where an application made under rule 120 relates to a permanent
cinema building- Rupees ten for an area of 92.90 square metres or less with an
additional fee of Rs.5 for every 46.45 square metres or fraction thereof in
excess of 92.90 square metres, subject to a minimum of [Rs. 1,500 (Rupees one
thousand and five hundred only)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1054, Home
(Cinema-II), dated the 10th July 2007.].(b)Where an application made under
rule 120 relates to a [travelling cinema] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2b43,
Home, dated 12th November 1987.] building- Rupees forty tor an area of 92.90
square metres or less with an additional fee of Rs. 20 for every 46.45 square
metres or fraction thereof in excess of 92.90 square metres, subject to a
minimum of [Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one thousand only)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No.
1054, Home (Cinema-II), dated the 10th July 2007.].(c)Where an application is
made under rule 121 [Rs. 500 (Rupees five hundred only)] [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 1054, Home (Cinema-II), dated the 10th July 2007.].(2)In case of
refusal to approve the transfer or assignment of a licence, a refund at the
rate of one-half of the total amount of the fee collected, shall be made to
the applicant. The application for such refund shall, however, be made by the
applicant within one month from the date of receipt of the orders of rejection
of his application for grant or renewal of licence. The refund shall be made
after the expiry of the period of appeal or after the disposal of the appeal
if an appeal has been presented.

### 123.

Every application for transfer or assignment of a licence shall be accompanied
by-(a)a treasury receipt for the payment of fees at the rates prescribed in
rule 122;(b)the licence in Form 'C'; and(c)a copy of the instrument, if any,
proposed to be executed by the applicants in respect of the transfer or
assignment of the licence, as the case may be.Explanation. - In the case of an
application made by any one of the legal heirs of the deceased licensee, the
applicant shall send the consent statement obtained from all the other legal
heirs for the transfer or assignment of the licence, as the case may be, in
his/her favour.

### 124.

On receipt of the application, the licensing authority shall cause a notice to
be published in the notice board of the licensing authority and the panchayat
union concerned of the fact of receipt of the application, with such details
as may be considered necessary and call for objections, if any, from the
public in regard to the request contained in the application. All objections
should be filed in writing before the licensing authority w i thin 15 days
from the date of publication in the notice board. Any objection filed after
this period shall be summarily rejected.

### 125.

After considering the application with particular reference to the status,
antecedents and previous experience of the parties to the application
concerned and the objections of the public, if any, the licensing authority
shall issue an order either approving or refusing to approve the transfer or
assignment of the licence, as the case may be. A copy of the order shall be
communicated to the applicants and the persons, if any, who have filed
objections before the licensing authority. While transferring or assigning the
'C' Form licence to any person, the licensing authority may impose a condition
in the transfer order or in the order of transfer or assignment of licence to
the effect that the transferee or assignee as the case may be, of the licence
shall be liable for the violations committed by the previous licensee, that
is, the transferor or assign or of such licence. This procedure is also
applicable to transfers made in the event of death of licensee.

### 126.

If the licensing authority issues an order approving the transfer or
assignment of the licence, he shall make necessary entries in the licence and
return it to the person in whose favour the licence has been transferred or
assigned.

### 127.

If the application raises doubts or suspicion of trafficking in licence or
involves transfer or assignment to a person who, in the opinion of the
licensing authority, is not in any way qualified and eligible for the grant of
a new licence, the application shall be rejected.

### 128.

Any person aggrieved by the decision of the licensing authority approving or
refusing to approve the transfer or assignment of a licence, may appeal to the
[Joint Commissioner of Land Administration.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.
989. Home, dated 4th May 1988.] The rules in Part III shall apply to such
appeals.

### 128A. [ [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 3010, Home, dated 7th December 1979.]

An application for revision shall lie to the Government against the order of
the Joint Commissioner of Land Administration in such cases. The rules in Part
III (A) shall apply to such application for revision.]

### 129. [ [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 247, Home, dated the 30th January,
1980.]

(1)Where the holder of a no objection certificate dies, any of his legal heirs
may make an application in Form "J" to the licensing authority, before the
expiry of the period of validity of no objection certificate, for the transfer
of the no objection certificate in his name.(2)Every application for transfer
or assignment of no objection certificate shall be accompanied by:-(a)the no
objection certificate in original; and(b)in the cases where an application is
made by a few of the legal heirs of the deceased holder of no objection
certificate, the consent statement obtained from all the other legal heirs for
the transfer or assignment of the no objection certificate in his
favour.(3)Where one of tire joint holders of the no objection certificate
dies, any of the legal heirs of the deceased holder of the no objection
certificate may make an application in Form "J" to include his name as a joint
holders of no objection certificate in the place of the deceased. If none of
the legal heirs makes such application, the no objection certificate issued in
the joint names will be deemed to have lapsed on the date of death of one of
the holder of the no objection certificate and the surviving holder of the no
objection certificate will have to make an application afresh for grant of no
objection certificate independently or jointly. Such application by the
surviving holder shall be disposed of according to the provision made in these
rules.(4)The provisions of rules 124, 125, 126, 127 and 128 shall mutatis
mutandis apply to the transfer of no objection certificate.]

### 130. [ [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 247 Home, dated the 30th January 1980.]

(1)If the holder of no objection certificate desires to transfer or assign his
no objection certificate to some other person or persons, he may, with the
person to whom he desires to transfer or assign his no objection certificate,
shall jointly make an application in writing in Form ']' to the licensing
authority which granted the no objection certificate, setting forth the
reasons for the proposed transfer or assignment before the period of expiry of
validity of the no objection certificate.(2)Every application for transfer or
assignment of no objection certificate shall be accompanied by -(a)the no
objection certificate in original; and(b)sworn affidavits by the no objection
certificate holder and the transferee or assignee, to the effect that no
consideration in financial or any other terms has passed between them for the
transfer.(3)The provisions of rules 124, 125, 126, 127 and 128 shall mutatis
mutandis apply to the transfer of the no objection certificate.][Part-X]
[Added by G.O Ms. No.1591, Home, dated the 5th June 1980.] Exhibition of films
in [music] [Inserted by G O. Ms. No. 18, Home, dated the 3rd January 1981.],
dance or drama performance as stage aid

### 131.

The licensing authority may, on the basis of satisfactory reasons being placed
before it, issue licence as provided in rule 134 for the exhibition of films
not exceeding 3 metre at one stretch and the duration not exceeding 15 minutes
over all in a place as a stage aid for dance or drama performance.

### 132.

The rules in this Part and rules 7, 8, 10 and 11 in Part I shall mutatis
mutandis apply to cinematograph exhibitions in [music] [Inserted by G.O. Ms.
No. 1591, Home, dated the 5th June 1980.] dance or drama performance as a
stage aid.

### 133.

(1)A person who intends to exhibit portion of any film during a [music]
[Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 1591, Home, dated the 5th June 1980.], dance or
drama performance in a place shall apply to the licensing authority in Form
"AA". A copy of the application shall be sent to the Chief Electrical
Inspector.(2)The cinematograph equipment shall be initially inspected by the
Chief Electrical Inspector or an officer deputed by him who shall issue a
certificate in Form 'D' which shall cease to be valid when the cinema
apparatus is shifted to a location or premises different from the one for
which the certificate was issued.(3)For every inspection under the rules of
this Part a fee of rupees thirty shall be paid in advance by the applicant
into a Government treasury to the credit of the Government and the treasury
receipt furnished to the Chief Electrical Inspector.(4)The certificate
referred to in sub-rule (2) shall be sent to the licensing authority within a
period of one week from the date of receipt of the application:Provided that
if the certificate referred to above is not furnished in time, it shall be
deemed to have been so issued subject, however, to the provisions contained in
the proviso to sub-rule (1) of rule 134.

### 134.

(1)The licensing authority may grant a licence in Form "K" within a week from
the date of receipt of the certificate referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 133
or within two weeks from the date of receipt of the application:Provided that
if the licensing authority decides to grant a licence deeming that the
certificate referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 131 has been issued as per the
proviso to sub-rule (4) of the said rule, he shall do so, subject to the
condition that it is liable to be revoked without notice, if the Chief
Electrical Inspector or the officer deputed by him sends an unsatisfactory
report as to the desirability of granting the certificate.(2)No fee shall be
levied for the grant of licence, where no admission fee is charged for the
performance. Otherwise a fee of rupees five shall be levied for grant of the
licence.Form A(See Rule 35 - Part II)Application

### 1\. Full name of the Applicant

### 2\. Address of the applicant

Village Taluk District

### 3\. Give details of your status

### 4\. (i) Have you been regularly paying taxes and other dues payable by you
to the State Government.

(ii)Are you in arrears in respect of any such tax or dues.(iii)If so, is the
matter under appeal or otherwise under consideration of the authorities.

### 5\. Have you any previous experience in the cinema line ? If so, give full
details.

### 6\. Do you possess now or have you ever possessed before any place
licensed under the Act ? If so, give full details of the places and the
Periods.

### 7\. Have you ever been convicted of an offence under clause (a) or clause
(c) of section 14 of the Tamil Nadu Entertainment Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu
Act X of 1939). If so, give full details.

### 8\. Have you ever been allowed to compound any such offence under the
Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act? If so, give full details.

### 9\. (i) Is the application for a permanent or semi permanent or
[Travelling Cinema] [ Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th
November 1987.].

### 10\. Details of the site for which you require the licence, survey number
or numbers, village, taluk, district.

### 11\. Have you included all the Survey Numbers which are required for a
direct access to the public road.

### 12\. Do you own the site? If so, attach documents relating to ownership
along with true copies.

### 13\. (a) Have you take the site on Lease ? If so, attach the lease deed
with a true and also copies of the records to prove ownership of lessor.

(b)Is the site taken on lease under the jurisdiction of the Hindu Religious
and/ Charitable Endowments Department, if so, attach the letter of permission
from the Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department
Chennai in original permitting the leasing out the site to the applicant.

### 14\. Have you attached a site plan drawn to scale of not less than 1 cm to
15 metres covering an area up to 200 meters from the boundaries of proposed
site showing-

(1)the position of the proposed premises in relation to any adjacent premises
and to the public thorough fare upon which the site of such premises abuts;
and(2)thatched sheds, if any, in the neighbourhood;(3)nearby schools, temples
etc., cinematograph exhibitions ?

### 15\.

(1)Is the site suitable for cinematograph exhibitions?(2)To your knowledge,
has it ever been licensed before? If so, give details

### 16\. Give the names, places and distance by public road of the proposed
site to nearest-Name Place Distance

(1)Permanent Cinema(2)[Travelling Cinema] [ Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643,
Home, dated the 12th November 1987.](3)School or College,
etc.(4)Hospital(5)Temple or other religious institutions

### 17\. Is your cinema likely to serve the needs of any particular locality?
If so, how ?

### 18. What are the other places licensed for cinematograph exhibition in the
locality say for around 8 kilo meters from the site.

### 19. What is the approximate population of the locality-say for around 8
kilometers from the site.

### 20. Considering the number of places already licensed in the locality is
there any need for another cinema.

Date:Signature:Certified that all the above particulars are true to the best
of my knowledge and belief.Signature.[Form A-I] [Forms A-1 and A-2 were
inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 281, Home dated the 7th January 1981.]Notice under
rule 35-A(3) of the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957I, ........,
son of ............, aged residing at ................ (address) have applied
to the licensing authority on for the grant of no objection certificate to
locate a permanent/ Semi-permanent/ [travelling cinema] [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th November 1987.] at this site measuring
about .......... (area) and bearing Survey Number measuring of Village Taluk
.......................District ......... belonging to myself/ and in my
possession/ belonging to ........... and .................... taken by me on
lease for a period of years from ............(The inapplicable portions shall
be struck out.)Note: Where more than one person is the applicant, the full
details of all the applicants may be given.[Form A-2] [Forms A-1 and A-2 were
inserted by G.O. Ms.No. 281, Home, dated the 7th January 1981.]Notice under
rule 35-a(4) of the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957Whereas Thiru
............ son of ........... aged.............. residing at ..............
(address) has applied to me on for the grant of a no objection certificate to
locate a permanent/ semipermanent/ [Travelling Cinema] [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th November 1987.] at a site measuring about
............. (area) and bearing Survey Number .......... of village
............... taluk ......... district belonging to him and in his
possession belonging to and taken by him on lease for a period of years
from..........Notice is hereby given that any person having any objection to
the grant of a no objection certificate as aforesaid on the grounds of non-
compliance by the applicant with any of the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act IX of 1955) or with any of the
rules made thereunder, should file his objection in writing with the licensing
authority within 15 days of the publication of this notice.Any objection filed
after this period shall be liable to be summarily
rejected.Place:Date:Signed........Designation.Licensing AuthorityNote: Where
more than one person is the applicant, full det, applicants may be given and
the form may be suitably altered.[Form AA] [Inserted G. O. Ms. No. 1591, Home,
dated the 5th June 1980.](See rule 133 in Part X)Application

### 1\. Full name of the applicant

### 2\. Address of the applicant

Village Taluk District

### 3\. Give details of your status

### 4\. Have you any previous experience in the cinema line ? If so, give full
details.

### 5\. Do you possess now or have you ever possessed before any place
licensed under the Act ? If so, give full details of places and the period.

### 6\. Have you ever been convicted of an offence under clause (a) or clause
(b) of sub-section 34 of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil
Nadu Act X of 1939) ? If so, give full details

### 7\. Have you ever been allowed to compound any such offence under the
Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) ? If so,
give full details.

### 8\. (i) Is the application for exhibition of a film during the performance
of a [Music] [Inserted G. O. Ms. No. 1591, Home, dated the 5th June 1980.]
dance or drama as a stage aid ?

(ii)Details of every portion of the film and reasons why the exhibition of the
film is indispensable for the performance.(iii)Length of the film to be
exhibited.(iv)Duration of the film to be exhibited.

### 9\. (i) Details of the place for which you require the licence, Survey No.
or Nos. Village, Taluk and District.

(ii)If the applicant is not be owner of the place or building, the name and
address of the owner of such place or building.(iii)Area of place or building
in square meters.(iv)Materials of which the roof side walks, gallery and
staircase are made.

### 10\. Whether the place or building is to be used during the day or during
the night or both with details of the timings during which the performance is
proposed to be conducted.

### 11\. Period for which the licence is required.

Date:Signature :Certified that all the above particular are true to the best
of my knowledge.Signature :Form BNo Objection Certificate[Rule 36 in Part II
and rule 106 in Part VII] [G. O. No. 1773, Home, dated the 29th May 1961.]In
exercise of the [powers conferred by] [G.O. No. 163, Home, dated 1968.] rule
36 in Part II/rule 106 in Part VII of it Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation)
Rules, 1957, the Collector of/the Commissioner of Police, [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act,
1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] hereby grants this certificate that there
is no objection to Thiru son of ................... resident of
................. village Taluk.......................district locating a
permanent [travelling cinema] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. 2643, Home, dated the
12th November 1987.] in the land belonging to Thiru........................The
site where the cinema is to be located is specified below:(Please give here
the description of the site as Form A)[The 'no objection certificate' is valid
for a period of there years in the case of permanent cinema, and six months in
the case of [Travelling Cinema] [G.O. No. 1773, Home, dated the 29th May
1961.] from the date hereof and if within this period, the proposed cinema is
not put up, a fresh 'no objection certificate' should be applied for]The no
objection certificate is also subject to the following special
conditions:-Dated ............... this day of 20 ...............Seal of the
Collector/Commissioner of Police, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).].[Note. [G.O Ms. 2643, dated the 28th August 1987.] \- The No Objection
Certificate shall cover not only the survey number or survey numbers of the
plot or plots on which the cinema building is proposed do be located, but also
survey number or survey numbers of the plot or plots which is proposed to be
used as access.]Form C(See rule 42 in Part II and rule 108 in Part VII)Licence
for Exhibition under the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulations) Act, 1955

Name and address of licensee |   
---|---  
If the licensee is not the owner of the place ofbuilding, the name and address of the owner thereof : |   
Situation of the place or building |   
Area of the place of building in square metres |   
Whether the place or building is to be usedduring the day or during the night or both. |   
Date of last inspection by the Chief ElectricalInspector or officer authorised by him. |   
Special conditions, if any, on which the licenceis granted. |   
Period for which the licence is to be in force. |   
Fee paid. |   
Actual number of persons permitted in each partof the auditorium. |   
  
In the first class | Persons |   
---|---|---  
In the | Persons |   
In the | Persons |   
In the | Persons |   
  
[Details of Punishments] [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 399, Home, dated the 14th
February 1980.]

No. & Date of Proceedings of the licensingauthority | Offence committed | Nature of punishment  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
(aa) Capacity of the Air Conditioned Unitinstalled in the theatre |  |   
  
Conditions of licenceThis licence is granted subject to the provisions of the
Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act IX of 1955), and the
rules made thereunder. It is also subject to the following conditions. The
terms and conditions of the licence, as inserted, may be modified or added to
at time during the currency of the licence-

### 1\. This licence does not exempt the licensee or his servants or agent
from taking out other licence required by or otherwise complying with any
other law or rule or by law made thereunder.

### 2\. (a) The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be exhibited any film
other than a film which has been certified as suitable for public exhibition
by the authority constituted under section 4 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952
(Central Act XXXVI of 1952) and which when exhibited, displays the prescribed
mark of that authority, and has not been altered or tampered within any way
since such mark was affixed thereto.

(aa)[* * *] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. 1162, Home, dated 15th May 1987.](b)The
licensee shall not exhibit, or permit to be exhibited in the place in respect
of which this licence is given, to any person who is not an adult any film
which has been certified by an authority constituted under section 4 of the
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVI of 1952), as suitable for public
exhibition restricted to adults.Explanation. - This condition shall not be
construed as prohibiting the exhibition of a film, in respect of which an 'A'
certificate has been granted to children in arms below the age of three.(c)The
licensee shall not display or cause to be displayed, any photograph picture or
poster which depicts or represents or purports to represent a scene 01 shot
which has been excised from any film under the orders of the Central Board of
Film Censors of the Central Government.(d)There shall be prominently exhibited
as each public entrance whenever the premises are open to the public, a notice
indicating in tabular form and it clear bold letters and figures-(i)The title
of each film to be shown on that day, other than trailers am advertisement
films;(ii)[ The approximate times of commencement and closing of each such
film as indicated below] [Substituted by G.O. M 399, Home, dated 14th February
1980.]:

| Morning Show | Matinee Show | First Show | Second[...] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. 2254, Home, dated 2nd February 1980.]  
---|---|---|---|---  
Show begins at (Duration in minutes) |  |  |  |   
Advertisement Shorts |  |  |  |   
Documentary/ News Reel |  |  |  |   
Main Feature |  |  |  |   
Interval |  |  |  |   
Trailers |  |  |  |   
Total duration |  |  |  |   
Show ends at approximately |  |  |  |   
  
(iii)whether each such film has received an 'A' or 'U' certificate from the
Central Board of Film Censors, and(iv)whether persons below the age of 18
years, other than children below the age of 3 years will be admitted or
not.(e)The nature of any certificate received in respect of a film from the
Central Board of Film Censors shall clearly be indicated by the letter 'U' or
'A in any advertisement or the film displays at the premises.(f)[ The licensee
shall put up at his cost at prominent places in the premises, advertisement
boards indicating the penal provision in the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax
Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) in respect of a person found in the
theatre without a ticket or pass.] [G.O. Ms. No. 2465, Home, dated the 28th
August 1968](g)[ The licensee shall put up at his own cost at prominent places
in the premises advertisement boards indicating the details of the scheme of
grant of cash rewards to private informants furnishing information which leads
to unearthing, suppression or evasion of tax under the Tamil Nadu
Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) announced by the
Government of Tamil Nadu, from time to time.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 568,
Home, dated the 8th March 1985.]

### 2\.

-A. (i) External loud speakers in any cinema as a source of attraction shall be prohibited.(ii)[ The sound inside the theatre shall be kept at the optimum level that is really necessary for comfortable hearing and shall not be too loud or noisy.] [G.O.Ms. No. 1404, Home, dated the 21st April 1965.]

### 3\. The licensee shall not exhibit advertisement slides relating to sexual
diseases and medicines to correct sexual disorders or purporting to assist the
childless in begetting children.

[3-A. The licensee shall exhibit slides informing the audience about the
installation of the electronic temperature indicator in the theatre, and that
if any person in the audience has any complaint to make about the functioning
of the air-conditioning arrangement in the theatre, he may record the
complaint in the complaint book available in the office of the theatre.]
[Added by G.O.Ms. No. 2357, Home, dated the 11th November 1983.]

### 4\. The licensee shall not permit obscene or objectionable posters or
pictorial publicity material to be displayed in the licensed premises.

### 5\. The grant of this licence is subject to any order that may be passed
by the State Government under section 5(4) of the Act.

### 6\. [ The actual rates of payment for admission to the different classes
in the licensed premises shall be as indicated below and these rates shall not
be altered during currency of this licence without an order in writing by the
licensing authority permitting such [alteration] [Inserted by G O. Ms. No.
1245, Home, dated 18th May 1979.]

Actual rate of admission | Class of accommodation  
---|---  
I. Class, |   
............................, |   
............................, |   
............................, |   
  
### 6\.

-A. (1) The licensee of an air-conditional theatre should charge only ordinary rates of admission (namely, rates as for ordinary cinemas) for any show if he is, for any reason, not able to provide air-conditioning facility for the full duration of the show even if such inability is due to circumstances beyond his control like the failure of power supply, failure of the plant, etc.(2)[ The licensees of air-conditioned theatres should refund the different between the rates for the air-condition facility and ordinary rates on tickets booked in advance, if they fail to provide air-condition facilities. To facilitate the public to claim the refund of said difference, the air-conditioned theatre should put up in the theatre board in the prominent-place or places exhibiting therein the rates for air-condition facility and the ordinary rates for different classes with a note that on days, when air-condition facility could not be provided for the full duration of the show or shows, the different between the said for rates each class will be refunded. A cinema slide as above should also be exhibited at the beginning of each show for information of the public.] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 399, Home, dated, 14th February 1980.]

### 7\. The licensing authority and any subordinate duly authorised by him in
that behalf and any police officer deputed to keep order during any
entertainment in the licensed premises shall, at all times, have free access
to the said premises in order to see whether the conditions of the licence are
fulfilled.

[7-A. The license shall exhibit Tamil films for a period of not less than 12
weeks in a year.] [Inserted by G.O Ms. No. 120, Home, dated 1st January 1979.]

### 8\. The licensee shall comply with such directions as the State Government
may, by general or special order, given as to the manner in which approved
films shall be exhibited in the course of any performance.

### 9\. The licensee shall also comply with such directions as the licensing
may give in regard to the exhibition of slides in each performance.

### 10\. No fire work shall be used as an adjunct to a cinema exhibition.

### 11\. No person shall be admitted within a line meters in front of, and
parallel to, the screen. A strong barrier or other efficient partition shall
be provided for enforcing this condition.

### 12\. The licensee shall not, without the permission of the licensing
authority assign, sub-let or otherwise transfer the licensed premises; nor
shall the licensee without permission as aforesaid allow any other person
during the period of currency of the licence, to exhibit films in the licensed
premises.

### 13\. In the case of [travelling cinema] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2643,
Home, dated 12th November 1987.] shows, the address on the first day of each
month and of every subsequent change of camp shall be notified to the
Electrical Inspector.

### 14\. [ The licensed premises shall not be kept open before or after
..........on any day without obtaining special permission in writing from the
licensing authority in respect of such day. [G. O. Ms. No. 2193, Home, dated
18th August 1973.]

The hour fixed by the licensing authority with due regard to local conditions
(but not earlier than 12 midnight and not later than 1.30) a.m. should be
entered.][14-A. The licence of a permanent cinema or a semi-permanent cinema
shall conduct not more than four shows, within the maximum permitted
exhibition time in a day.] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 2254, Home, dated 2nd
February 1980.][Provided that on local festival days or public holiday one
special show per day over and above the four shows may be permitted by the
licensing authority subject to the following conditions:] [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. 2233, Home, dated 11th October 1988.](i)For conducting a special show on
public holidays, Saturdays and Sundays, the licensee shall intimate the
licensing authority and also the Entertainments Tax Officer having
jurisdiction over the place of exhibition in advance and in respect of
conducting a special show on local festival days, the licensee shall obtain
prior permission of the licensing authority.(ii)Sufficient time of not less
than half an hour shall be allowed in between two shows for the purpose of
sweeping the auditorium and of cleaning the urinals and latrines. Adequate
number of sweeper and scavengers shall be appointed for this purpose.(iii)For
conducting five shows, as per rule 11, three licensed operators shall be
appointed.(iv)The working hours as well as the number of persons to be
employed shall be in accordance with the provisions in the Tamil Nadu Shops
and Establishments Act, 1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVI of 1947). The Commissioner
of Labour or Officers nominated by him in this behalf enter and inspect the
theatre at any time.

### 15\. The licensee shall ensure that no dispute arising out of ownership or
possession of the site, building or equipment is likely to cause any breach of
the peace at any time.

### 16\. [ The licensee shall provide a suitable cycle stand for the cycles
that may reasonably be expected to be brought and arrange for taking care of
them. He shall also make necessary arrangements to look after the cars,
scooters and motor cycles which are bought to the licensed premises.] [G.O.
Ms. No. 762 Social Welfare, dated the 18th October 1969.]

### 17\. [ The Licensee shall not use the licensed premises for any purpose
other than that for which it has been licensed under the Tamil Nadu Cinemas
(Regulation) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act IX of 1955), and the rules made
thereunder except with the prior written permission of the licensing authority
concerned, which may, on merits accord such permission for individual
performances and the proceeds thereof, are to be devoted solely to
philanthropic, religious, charitable, social political or literary purposes.]
[G.O. Ms. No. 532 Social Welfare, dated the 6th August 1969.]

### 18\. This license shall be subject to cancellation or suspension for
breach of any of these conditions or of the special conditions specified on
the reverse.

Dated the day of .......................

Seal of the| CommissionerCollector  
---  
  
[Form D] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1309, Home, dated the 31st August
1995.](See rule 40 in Part II)Government of Tamil Nadu Electricity
DepartmentElectrical InspectorateOffice of the Chief Electrical Inspector,
MadrasCertificate No. ..................Dated
........................Certificate of the cinema apparatus and plant,
electric installation, fire fighting appliances and the fire precautionary
measuresUnder rule 40 in Part II and rule 94 in Part VI of the Tamil Nadu
Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957, I certify that the enclosure, the cinema
apparatus and plant and the electrical installation of the cinema known
as............ Village/town .............taluk.............district and more
particularly described overleaf of which Sri..........is the managing
proprietor and Sri .............is the manager for silent (i.e.) non-talkie
films only/both silent and talkie films or person in charge at..............on
are in Order.

### 2\. I also certify that the rules regarding the fire-fighting appliances
and fire precautionary measures in the licensed premises and rule 11 in Part
IA and 91 in Part V have been complied with.

This certificate is valid for a period of...............from......to......but
is liable to revocation within that period.Signature of
Officer.(Reverse)Details of Equipment

| Equipment | Maker's Name | Number | Capacity  
---|---|---|---|---  
Engine |  |  |  |   
Motor |  |  |  |   
Generator |  |  |  |   
Rectifier |  |  |  |   
Projector |  |  |  |   
Converter |  |  |  |   
Transformer |  |  |  |   
Amplifier |  |  |  |   
Fire Extinguisher |  |  |  |   
[Name (if operator] [G.O. Ms. No. 1458, Home, dated the 31st May 1958.] |  |  |  |   
Licence Number - |  |  |  |   
Period of validity of licence |  |  |  |   
  
Where, however, the licensee does not employ a licensed operator at the time
of issue of certificate under rule 40 by the Electrical Inspector, these
details will be entered in at the time of issue of licence.Note. - For
renewals a challan of for Rs.400 per year under Rule 95(1) towards the fee for
Inspection and Challan for Rs.200 towards fee for renewal under Rule 112(1)
should be sent to reach the electrical inspector on or before (three months
before the date of expiry of the licence).Form ETemporary Permit for
Exhibition under the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1955(See rule 97 in
Part VI)Whereas.......................(full name and address) has applied for
the renewal of his licence and the said licence has been retained in my office
pending disposal of his application, he is hereby permitted temporally to
exhibit films in.......(here enter description of premises under the Tamil
Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu IX of 1955), for a period of
one month from this date subject to the provisions of rule 97 in Part VI of
the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957.Dated
the.........day.......of.............................Commissioner of Police/
CollectorForm FLicence for Exhibition under the Tamil Nadu Cinemas
(Regulation) Act, 1955[See rule 118 in Part VIII]

Name and address of licensee |   
---|---  
If the licensee is not the owner of the place orbuilding, the name and address of the owner thereof. |   
Situation of the place or building |   
Area of the place or building in square metres. |   
Material of which the roof, side walls, galleryand staircase are made. Whether the place or building is to beused during the day or during the night or both. |   
Date of inspection by the Chief ElectricalInspector or officer authorised by him. |   
Period for which the licence is to be in force |   
  
Conditions of LicenceThis licence is granted subject to the provisions of the
Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act IX of 1955) and the
rules made thereunder. It is also subject to the following conditions. The
terms and conditions of the licence, as inserted, may be modified or added to
at any time during the currency of the licence.(1)This licence does not exempt
the licensee or his servants or agents from taking out any other licence
required by or otherwise complying with any other law or rules or by-law made
thereunder.(2)The licensee shall not exhibit advertisement slides relating to
sexual diseases and medicines to correct sexual disorders or purporting to
assist the childless in begetting children.(3)The licensee shall not permit
obscene or objectionable posters, or pictorial publicity material to be
displayed in the licensed premises.(4)the licensee shall not display or cause
to be displayed any photograph, picture or poster which depicts or represents
or purports to represent a scene or shot which has been excised from any film
under the orders of the Central Board of Film Censors, or the Central
Government.(5)The licensing authority and any subordinate duly authorised by
him in that behalf and any police officer, deputed to keep order during any
entertainment in the licensed premises shall, at all times, have free access
to the said premises in order to see whether the conditions of the licence are
fulfilled.(6)No fire work shall be used as an adjunct to a cinema
exhibition.(7)[ No admission fee shall be charged.] [G.O. Ms. No. 476, Home,
dated 25th February 1958.]Dated the day of..............Seal of the
Commissioner of Police/Collector.[Form G] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1458, Home, dated
31st May 1958 and G.O. Ms. No. 2867, Home, dated 12th October, 1959.]Cinema
Operator's Licence(See rule 11 of the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules,
1957)First Page Of BookletForm GCinema Operators LicenceIssued under sub-rule
(1) of rule 11 of the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957Second Page
of BookletLicence number and date:Name of the Licensee:Father's Name:Address
of the Licensee:Present Address:Number and date of the certification of
competency issued by the Tamil Nadu Board of Examiner for Cinema
Operators.Third Page of Booklet  
  
---  
  
Valid up to 20................The holder of this licence is authorised to
operate the cinematograph apparatus throughout the State of Tamil Nadu subject
to the conditions specified on pages 6-7 infra.Chief Electrical Inspector to
Government.........District.Dated 20.Fourth Page of Booklet  
  
---  
  
Renewed up to..................20...The holder of this licence is authorised
to operate the cinematograph apparatus throughout the State of Tamil Nadu,
subject to the conditions specified on pages 6-7 infra.Chief Electrical
Inspector to Government......................... DistrictDated
20..............Fifth Page of Booklet  
  
---  
  
Renewed up to 19................<The holder of this licence is authorised to
operate the cinematograph apparatus throughout the State of Tamil Nadu subject
to the conditions specified on pages 6-7 infra.Chief Electrical Inspector to
Government.........District.Dated ................. 20 ..................Sixth
and Seventh Pages of BookletConditionsThis licence shall be renewed at
intervals of five years and must be carried on the holder's person and
produced on demand by inspecting officers.The operator shall send intimation
to the Chief Electrical Inspector to Government whenever the proceeds on
leave, resigns or accepts new appointment.The application for renewal shall be
sent to the Chief Electrical Inspector by Registered Post at least three
months prior to the date of expiry enclosing-(1)The licence to be renewed and
the competency certificate issued by the Board.(2)Challan for payment of rupee
one only being renewal fee remitted into a Government Treasury, Sub-Treasury,
Reserve Bank of India or any of the Branches of the State Bank of India to the
credit of the Government under the head of account "043. Other Taxes and
duties-B. Receipts on electricity- duties-(a) fees under the Indian
Electricity Rules, 1956 and the Fees for the Electrical Inspection of Cinemas
- other receipt".For belated applications a penalty of rupee one for each
month or part thereof shall be paid into the Government Treasury or the State
Bank of India and the challan enclosed.(3)Two copies of photographs of
applicant 5 cm x 7.5 cm size, taken within a year of application.(4)The
specimen signature of the applicant.(5)Permanent address; and(6)Present
address (with details of where at present employed).Form HThe Board of
Examiners for Cinema Operators, Tamil NaduCompetency CertificateThis is to
certify that passed the Competency Examination conducted by the Board of
Examiners for Cinema Operators held on..  
  
---  
  
[Form I] [G. O. Ms. No. 2042, Home, dated the 17th July 1968.]The Board of
Examiners for Cinema Operators, Tamil NaduApplication for Transfer or
Assignment of Licence in Form C(See rule 120 and 121 - Part IX)LicenseeSection
IPerson to whom the Licence is to be Transferred or Assignee

1. | Full Name of the Applicants |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---  
2. | Address of the applicants | Village | Taluk | District  
3. | Age |  |  |   
4. |  (a) Status, antecedents and previous experienceof the applicants: |  |  |   
|  Note. - The applicants should furnish hereinamong other things, particulars of taxes or other dues toGovernment and whether in respect of any assessment for tax, thematter is under consideration with the authorities of theGovernment. |  |  |   
|  (b) Whether the applicant have not beenconvicted of an offence under clause (a) or clause (c) of section14 of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu ActX of 1939), and, if so, particulars of such convictions. |  |  |   
5. | Period of validity of the licence: |  |  |   
6. |  Is the application for transfer or assignment inrespect of a permanent cinema or[Travelling Cinema] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th November 1987.]? |  |  |   
7. |  Is the application for transfer or assignment ofthe licence ? (Here give details if the period for which thelicence is proposed to be transferred or assigned, theconsideration fixed for the transaction, etc). |  |  |   
8. |  What are the reasons for the proposed transferor assignment of the licence ? |  |  |   
  
Signature of applicants.Section II

1. | Full Name of applicant: |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---  
2. | Address of the applicant | Village |  | Taluk  
3. | Age of the applicant |  |  |   
4. |  (a) Status, antecedents and previous experienceof the applicant: |  |  |   
|  Note. - The applicant should furnish herein,among other things, particulars of taxes or other dues toGovernment and whether in respect of any assessment for tax, thematter is under consideration with the authorities of theGovernment, (b) Whether the applicant have not been convicted ofany offence under clause (a) or. clause (c) of section 14 of theTamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of1939) and, if so, particulars of such convictions. |  |  |   
5. | (a) Name of the deceased licensee |  |  |   
| (b) Date on which the licensee died |  |  |   
6. |  (a) Particulars about all the legal heirs to thelicensee Name of legal heirs..Age. Relationship to the licensee. |  |  |   
|  (b) On what basis the applicant claims to be alegal heir of the licensee. |  |  |   
7. |  Is the application for transfer in respect of apermanent or[Travelling Cinema] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th November 1987.]? |  |  |   
8. | Period of validity of the licence. |  |  |   
9. |  Has the applicant obtained the consent of allother legal heirs, in writing for the transfer of the licence inhis/her name? (consent statement to be attached). |  |  |   
  
Signature of Applicant.[Form J] [Substituted by G. O Ms. No. 247, Home, dated
the 30th January 1980.]Application for Transfer or Assignment of No Objection
Certificate(See rules 129 and 130)

1. | Full name(s) of the applicant(s) |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---  
2. | Address(es) of the applicant(s) | Village | Taluk | District  
3. | Age of the applicant(s) |  |  |   
4. |  The nexus between the no objection certificateholder(s) and the applicant(s) |  |  |   
5. |  Reasons for the applicant(s) choice by the noobjection certificate holder |  |  |   
6. |  (a) Details of status, antecedents and previousexperiences, if any, of the applicant(s) |  |  |   
|  Explanation. - The applicant(s) should furnishherein, among other things, particulars of taxes and other duesto Government and whether in respect of any assessment for taxthe matter is under consideration with the authorities ofGovernment. |  |  |   
|  (b) Whether the applicant/ any of the applicantshave been convicted or compounded for any offence under clause(a) or clause (b)(i) of sub-section (1) of section 14 of theTamil Nadu Entertainment Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939)and, if so, particulars of such conviction/ compounding, (c) Ifdead, the date on which the holder/ joint holder of the noobjection certificate died: |  |  |   
7. |  (a) Particulars about all the legal heirs to thedeceased holder of the no objection certificate. |  |  |   
| Name of heirs |  |  |   
| Age |  |  |   
|  Relationship to deceased holders of No ObjectionCertificate. |  |  |   
|  (b) On what basis the applicant(s) claim(s) tobe legal heir(s) of the deceased holder/ joint holder of noobjection certificate. |  |  |   
8. |  Whether the application is for transfer orinclusion of another person in the capacity of a joint holder ofthe no objection certificate in respect of a permanent/semi-permanent or[Travelling Cinema] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th November 1987.]? |  |  |   
9. |  Number and date of proceedings of the licensingauthority granting the no objection certificate and the period ofvalidity of the no objection certificate. |  |  |   
10. |  Has/ Have the applicant(s) obtained the consentof all other legal heirs in writing for the transfer of the noobjection certificate in his/ her name? (consent statement to beattached). |  |  |   
  
Signature of the Applicant(s)Enclosures:(1)Original no objection
certificate(2)Sworn affidavits prescribed in rule 180(2)(b).Form KLicense for
exhibition of a portion of film as a stage aid in a [music] [Inserted by G. O.
Ms. No. 18, Home, dated the 31st January 1981.] dance or drama performance(See
rule 134 in Part X)

1. | Name and address of licensee: |   
---|---|---  
2. |  If the licensee is not the owner of the place orbuilding, the name and address of the owner thereof: |   
3. | Situation of the place or building: |   
4. | Area of the place or building in square metres: |   
5. |  Whether the performance is a 1 [Music] dance ordrama performance: |   
6. |  Details of the portion of the film to beexhibited: |   
7. |  Length of the film to be exhibited during theperformance: |   
8. |  Duration of the film to be exhibited during theperformance: |   
9. |  Whether the place or building is to be usedduring the day or during the night or both with details of thetimings during which the performance is to be conducted. |   
10. |  Date of Inspection by the Chief ElectricalInspector or the Officer deputed by him: |   
11. | Period for which the Hence is to be in force: |   
  
Conditions of LicenceThis licence is granted subject to the provisions of the
Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu IX of 1955) and the
rules made thereunder. It is also subject to the following conditions. The
terms and the conditions of the licence as inserted may be modified or added
to at anytime during the currency of the licence-(1)This licence does not
except the licensee or his servants or agents from taking out any other
licence required by or otherwise complying with any other law or rules or by-
law made thereunder;(2)The licensee shall not exhibit advertisement slides
relating to sexual diseases and medicines to correct sexual disorders or
purporting to assist the children in begetting children.(3)The licensee shall
not permit obscene or objectionable posters or pictorial publicity material to
be displayed in the licensed premises.(4)The licensee shall not display or to
be displayed any Photograph, picture or poster which depicts or represents or
purports to represent a scene or shot which has been excised from any film
under the orders of the Central Board of Film Censors or the Central
Government.(5)The licensing authority and any subordinate duly authorised by
him in that behalf and any police officer deputed to keep order during any
entertainment in the licensed premises shall at all times, have free access to
the said premises in order to see whether the conditions of the licence are
fulfilled.(6)No fire works shall be used as an adjunct to cinema
exhibition.Dated the day of...........Commissioner of Police/ Collector.[Form
L] [G.O. Ms. No. 2927, Home, dated the 3rd December, 1985.][See rule
36(3)]Proforma to accompany the report on extension of validity of no
objection certificate or for relaxation of the condition already imposed in
the no objection certificate

1. | Name and address of the applicant |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Survey number, village or town in which thepermanent[Travelling] [G.O. Ms. No. 2927, Home, dated the 3rd December, 1985.]or open air cinema is permitted to beconstructed. |   
3. |  Proceedings number and date in which noobjection certificate was granted: |   
4. |  Date on which validity of the original noobjection certificate expires: |   
5. |  Date on which application for extension ofvalidity of no objection certificate. |   
6. |  Reasons adduced by the applicant for extensionof time: |   
7. |  Validity of no objection certificate. The stageof construction of the cinema at the time of application made forextension of time. |   
8. |  Whether the reasons adduced by the applicant forextension of time are genuine: |   
9. |  Whether the applicant is capable of completingthe construction within the extended time: |   
10. | Recommendation of the Tahsildar |   
11. |  Remarks of the Divisional Officer (in case ofcinemas other than Travelling Cinema |   
12. | Orders of the Collector |   
  
Signature[Form M] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2643, Home, dated the 12th
November 1987.][See rule 14-A(2)]Proforma for sending report on application
made for exemption from the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957

1. | Name and address of the applicant |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Survey Number, Village or town in which thecinema is to be constructed. |   
3. | Whether permanent or[Travelling Cinema] [G.O. Ms. No. 2927, Home, dated the 3rd December, 1985.] |   
4. |  Proceedings in which no objection certificatewas granted. |   
5. | Rule for which exemption is sought for |   
6. |  Circumstances leading to the applicantrequesting the exemption from the above rules. |   
7. |  Whether the grant of exemptions will affect thepublic interest. |   
8. |  Specific recommendations of the Tahsildar on therepresentations for exemption from Tamil Nadu Cinemas(Regulation) Rules, 1957 (after personal inspection) |   
9. | Remarks of the Divisional Officer |   
10. | Orders or recommendation of the Collector. |   
  
SignatureForm N[See rule 40 in Part 11(c)]Certificate of Structural
SoundnessUnder sub-rule (4) of rule 40 in Part 11(c) of the Tamil Nadu Cinemas
(Regulation) Rules, 1957,1 certify that the structural soundness of the cinema
building known as.............. and located at................. of which
Thiru..........is the licensee, has been verified by me with reference to the
provisions contained in the Tamil Nadu Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1957, as
amended, from time to time, and I declare, that the building is structurally
sound to be used for exhibition of Cinematograph films.

### 2\. The certificate is valid for a period
of........from............to...........

Station:Date:Signature of the EngineerRegistration No.ClassAddress.Form O[See
rule 40 in Part 11(c)]Proforma to accompany the certificate of structural
soundness to be issued by any engineer who is competent to issue the said
certificateReport for the period from ...

### 1\. Name and address of the licensee of the cinema theatre

### 2\. Name of the cinema theatre

### 3\. Place at which the cinema is situated (full address, including pin
code)

### 4\. Age of building (in years and months indicate also the dale on which
it was first fully completed).

### 5\. Date of last inspection

### 6\. Defects pointed out by the P.W.D. earlier

### 7\. Have the defects pointed out been fully verified? If not what is the
position?

### 8\. Are the foundations of the building such that they will sustain the
combined load of the building and of the super-imposed load and transmit those
loads to the sub-soil in such manner as not to impair the stability of the
building by the settlement caused by the pressure of such loads (details of
the foundations and nature of soil should be given).

### 9\. Have the foundation of the building been taken down to such a depth
and/ or are so constructed, as to render the building immune from damage from
movement due to seasonal variations in the content of moisture in the ground
(details should be given).

### 10\. Has the licensee taken necessary steps to secure the proper stability
of the building and to render the building immune from any settlement or
movement that may be caused in the soil on account of seasonal variations in
the contents of moisture, inequalities of soil resistance, lateral escape of
soft soil, sliding of the substratum on sloping ground distributed or
concentrated lateral pressure or other causes (details should be given).

### 11\.

(1)Foundation-(i)Depth below ground level;(ii)Nature of soil met with at
foundation level.(iii)Pressure at foundation:(iv)Probable safe bearing
capacity of the statement with at foundation.(2)Superstructure-(i)Maximum
stress in the most critical section of masonry and concrete;(ii)Nature of
masonry and concrete and its safe permissible stress.

### 12\. Condition of roof trusses, rafters, etc. -

(1)Roof truss-(a)Span-(i)Clean span;(ii)Effective span;(iii)Rise.(b)Spacing of
trusses;(c)Loads-(i)Weight of A C. sheet;(ii)Self-weight of truss;(iii)Weight
of false ceiling;(iv)Live load(v)Basis wind pressure and directions most of
the time.(2)Rafters-(a)Maximum
compression;(b)Tension;(c)Moment;(d)Length;(e)Actual compressive
stress;(f)Actual bending stress.(3)Bottom ties-(a)Maximum tension(b)Maximum
compression.(c)Length.(d)Actual tensile stress.(e)Actual compressive
stress.(f)Effective length.

### 13\. Is the ground floor of the building not less than half a metre above
the ground level?

### 14\. Has the building been provided with means for effectual drainage of
storm water, sullage and sewage from the premises?

### 15\. Do not eaves of the building have a height of not less than 3.10
metres?

### 16\. Under the conditions of dead and live loading, do the stresses in any
of the material of the construction or in the materials (on which the
structure rests exceed the permissible limits as laid in relevant India
standard (bye law 4.2.1 in I.S. 4878-1968).

### 17\. Does the structure of the building conform to the loading standards
specified in IS. 875-1964 in so far as live loads and wind loads are
concerned.

### 18\. Are the walls so designed that stress in the walls do not exceed the
sale permissible limits laid down in I.S. 1905-1961?

### 19\. Have the thicknesses of load bearing brick masonry walls been adopted
as laid down in Table 2 given in 4.3.1 of I.S. 4878-1968?

### 20\. Have the premises been enclosed with proper external or pardoning
walls of brick or stone?

### 21. Has the licensee provided suitable means of drainage to the building
and also sanitary convenience according to the scale indicated in rule 55?

### 22. Is the requirement for fitments for drainage and sanitation in respect
of the building in accordance with rule 55 (2)?

### 23. Has the licensee provided bulk head fittings in the quashed, ticket
counters and toilet rooms intended for the use of the public?

### 24. Have the floor, roof, ceiling, private boxes, balconies, galleries,
tiers, partitions and every room, lobby corridor and passage been constructed
of fire resisting materials.

### 25.

(1)Has the false ceiling been so constructed as to prevent either total or
early collapse in the event of fire?(2)Has catewalk of suitable materials been
provided?(3)Has the panelling of walls with wood and other combustible
materials been permitted? If so. have such combustible materials been treated
with fire resistant paint?(4)Would the use of clock rooms (if provided)
obstruct the free use of any exit?

### 26\.

(1)Have internal doors been so fitted as not to obstruct when open, any
gangway, passage, stairway or landing?(2)Is the size of the doorways is not
less than 2.25 metres by that is 1.5 metre?(3)Is the landing of 1.5 metres
flush with the floor?

### 27\. Have any subsequent additions or alternations been made to the
premises7 If so, what are they? Give also the numbers and date of the
reference in which sanction has been accorded by the licensing authority for
such addition, alterations.

### 28\.

(1)Have all windows and other means of ventilation been maintained in good
order?(2)Have every part of the building been maintained in proper sanitary
condition?(3)Have the walls of the buildings been not lime washed once in
every six months or painted over once in every two years?(4)Have all walls
outside the auditorium been lined with a washable surface to two metres height
from the ground level and kept clean always?(5)Has a permanent record been
kepi for having carried out debugging operation, regular spraying with
residual insecticides against mosquitoes and fogging with insecticides by
fogging machine or whist blower?

### 29\.

(1)Has the licensee provided a sufficient supply of wholesome drinking water
as required under rule 81(l)(i)?(2)Has the licensee provided sufficient number
of spittoons as recommended by the Health Officer concerned?

### 30\.

(1)Are there any recesses or projections in the walls of passage, gangway or
corridors within 1.75 metres of the ground?(2)Have the lights have been
provided at a height of not less than two metre above the ground.

### 31\. Any additional remarks.

### 32\. Recommendation.

Signature of the EngineerNote. - 1. Items 8 to 12 to be applicable for new
buildings, i.e., the first issue of the Structural Stability Certificate.

### 2\. Items 16 to 18 to be verified the theoretically while approving the
plans and designs.

### 3\. Details for item 27 to be furnished by licensee.

Form-P[See rule 44-B]To.....................................Name and address
of the LicenseeYou have committed the offences mentioned here under and its
proposed to compound the send offence. If you desire to compound the said
offence(s), you are required to you are required to transmit a sum of Rupees
to the Licensing authority on or
before......................(date).......................Signatures and
address of the Licensing authority.Details of the Offences

### 1\. Conducting matinee and other extra shows without prior permission.

### 2\. Conducting shows in the theatre without valid C form licence or E
permit.

### 3\. Leasing out theatres without permission of the licensing Authority.

### 4\. Allowing unlicenced operators to handle projectors.

### 5\. Dirty and insanitary conditions of the auditorium lavatories etc.

### 6\. Non-provision of fans or provision of defective fans.

### 7\. Refusal of licensees to apply fire resistance paints in the
auditorium.

### 8\. Poor conditions of seats and Chairs.

### 9\. Porr ridden conditions in the auditorium.

### 10\. Lacks of periodical white washing.

### 11\. Non display of ticket rates at booking counter.

### 12\. Non provision of drinking water or provisions of unclean water.

### 13\. Non Exhibition of news reals.

### 14\. Non Exhibition of cinematograph Act and Rules in the auditorium.

### 15\. Non Production of C form licence and related certificates before
inspecting authorities.

Appendix IModel Wiring Diagram For Cinemas[See rule 90(1) in Part
Y]Diagram[Appendix II] [G. O. Ms. No. 1458, Home, dated the 31st May
1958.]Regulations for the Issue of Cinema Operators Licence

### 1\. Application for the issue of Cinema Operators licence may be made to
the Chief Electrical Inspector by the candidates who have been declared
successful in the Cinema Operator's Examination held by the Board of Examiner
of Cinema Operator or who are exempted from such examination.

The application shall be made along with a fee of [Rs.50] [G. O. Ms. No. 72L,
Home, dated the 29th March 1982.]. The fee may be remitted into any Government
Treasury or the State Bank of India to the credit of "043 Taxes and Duties on
Electricity-Fees under the Indian Electricity Rules-Fees for the Electrical
inspection of cinemas-other receipts" and the relevant challan enclosed. The
competency certificate shall also be enclosed with the application for licence
for reference and return. Two copies of photograph 5cm by 7.5cm in size taken
within a year of application and two specimen signatures of the applicant
shall also be enclosed.

### 2\. The Chief Electrical Inspector may issue the licences for period not
exceeding five years.

### 3\. [ Application received in the office of the Electrical Inspector after
the expiry of the three months period from the date of expiry of the licence
shall be considered as an application for a new licence and a fee of Rs. 50
shall be charged.] [Para 3 was substituted G. O. Ms. No. 473, Home (Cin-3),
dated the 19th March 1995.]

### 4\. A candidate who had passed the Cinema Operator's Test and had been
awarded the competency certificate by the Board, but who had not taken out a
licence from the Chief Electrical Inspector within a period of three years
from the date of issue of the competency certificate shall not be eligible for
a Cinema Operator's licence unless he again appears for and secures a pass in
the Cinema Operator's Examination held by the Board.

### 5\. [ The application for renewal of cinema operator's licence received
with in a period of three months after the expiry of the licence shall be
entertained and a fine of Rs 250 shall be collected for this purpose. The
application received beyond three months after the date of expiry of the
licence shall be treated as fresh application.] [Part 5 was substituted by G.
O. Ms. No. 473, Home (Cin-3), dated the 19th March 1995.]

### 6\. The operator shall report to the Chief Electrical Inspector whenever
he proceeds on leave, resigns or accepts appointment in another cinema.

### 7\. Fees once paid shall not be refunded.

### 8\. An operators' licence granted to any person under these regulations
shall be liable to be withdrawn, suspended or cancelled if, in the opinion of
the Chief Electrical Inspector, the operator has not complied with these
provisions, if found incompetent (sic) malpractices or has impersonated. The
decision of the Chief Electrical Inspector shall be final in all matter of
issue of licences, their renewals, suspension cancellation.

### 9\. [ The State Government may, by order, in writing exempt subject to
such conditions and restrictions as they may impose any candidate from all any
of the provisions of the foregoing regulations.] [G. O. Ms. No. 4341, Home,
dated the 9th December 1965.]

[Appendix III] [G. O. Ms. No. 1458, Home, dated the 31st May 1958.]Regulations
for the Issue of Competency Certificate

### 1\. Qualifications for candidates. - (i) The minimum general education
qualification for candidates appearing for the examination conducted by the
Board of Examiners for Cinema Operators shall be X Standard or SSLC or its
equivalent. Prior to the date of the application for admission to the
examination the candidate should have serve as an apprentice or served for a
period of not less than one year in a Cinema Theatre under the supervision of
a licensed operator. If the candidate is holder of a degree or diploma in
electrical engineering of a University or of a recognised Institute, he should
have served previously to the date of the application for admission to the
examination as an apprentice for not less than six months in a cinema theatre
under the direct supervision of a licensed operator.

(ii)The record of such apprenticeship of service should be certified and
attested both by the licensed operator under whose supervision he has worked
and by the manager or proprietor of the theatre where he has worked for the
specified period.

### 2\. Registration of apprentices. - Candidates for Cinema Operators'
examination and candidates for competency certificate shall register
themselves with the Board before commencing their prescribed period of
apprenticeship in recognised cinema theatres. A fees of [Rs. 5 (Rupees five
only)] shall be charged for registration. Without such prior registration the
apprenticeship will not be recognised as valid for purposes of examination and
for the issue of competency certificates.

### 3\. Age. - A candidate appearing for the examination or applying for a
competency certificate must not be less than 18 years of age.

### 4\. Syllabus. - The syllabus for the cinema operators' course will be as
follows:

(i)Working knowledge of bioscope machines or talkies, cinematograph machines
and in particular, knowledge of the type of machine which the candidate is at
the time employed in operating.(ii)Knowledge of municipal bye-laws and other
rules relating to cinematograph exhibitions and precautions against
fire.(iii)Knowledge of the most speedy and effective methods of dealing with
fire.(iv)Knowledge of the elements of electric power, direct and alternate
current, voltage, amperage, etc. or in the case of mufassal operators, of
petrol or oil engines; and knowledge of the provisions of Indian Electricity
Rules and methods of treatment of persons suffering from electric
shock.(v)Proficiency in the handling, winding, repairing and efficient
cleaning of films.

### 5\. Fees. - A fee of Rs. 5 (Rupees five only) shall be paid to the Board
for the registration of a candidate with the Board for recognition of
apprenticeship thereafter as mentioned in the rule 2 above. The amount shall
be remitted by a crossed postal order or by money order in favour of the
Government Board of Examiners for Cinema Operators, Chennai-2. The name and
address of the candidate shall be typed or legibly written in the coupon of
the Money Order Form.

(b)A fee of Rs. 20 (Rupees Twenty only) shall be paid to the Board by a
candidate applying for the operator's examination. This covers also the fees
for the issue of a competency certificate in the case of those who pass the
examinations.(c)A fee of Rs. 20 (Rupees Twenty only) is payable for the
competency certificate by a candidate applying for the competency certificate,
but who is exempted from sitting for the operator's examination.(d)For every
duplicate copy of the competency certificate, a fee of Rs. 2 (Rupees two only)
shall be paid.The amount payable under (b), (c) and (d) above shall be
remitted by means of a demand draft on the State Bank of India, Chennai or by
means of a crossed postal order in favour of the Government Board of Examiners
for Cinema Operators, Chennai-2.Fees once paid shall not be refunded.

### 6\. Eligibility for appearing for examination. - (a) The candidate shall
be holder of a certificate of having been declared successful in the X
Standard Examination or SSLC its equivalent unless he is exempted under rule
1.

(b)The candidate shall have his name registered with the Board as an
apprentice operator, as per the rules of such registration.(c)(i)The candidate
shall have, after registration of apprenticeship as in (b) above in, put an
apprenticeship or service for a period not less than one full year in licensed
theatre, unless he is exempted under rule 12; or(ii)In case the candidate is
the holder of a degree or diploma in Electrical Engineering of a University or
a recognised institution, he should have served as an apprentice for not less
than six months in a cinema theatre under the direct supervision of licensed
operator after registration as in (b) above.

### 7\. Document and instrument to be sent along with the application. - Every
application for the examination or for the competency certificate shall be
accompanied by the following:-

(a)The application in the prescribed form shall be counter-signed by the
licensee or the proprietor or Managing Director or Managing Partner or the
licensee of the theatre where the candidate had undergone apprenticeship or
service or practice training or the Principal of the Government Central
Polytechnic Chennai or by Gazetted Officer, as the case may be;(b)A
certificate in original testifying that the applicant has passed the X
Standard or SSLC Examination or its equivalent;(c)Three copies of photographs
(half card size) of the applicant, such photograph being attested by the
proprietor or managing director or managing partner, licensee of the theatre
or the Principal, Government Central Polytechnic, Chennai or a Gazette
Officer;(d)Conduct and service certificates in the prescribed forms available
with the Board duly signed by appropriate authorities as specified
therein;(e)Bank draft for Rs. 20 (Rupees twenty only) obtained from the State
Bank of India or any of its branches or crossed postal order for the amount in
favour the Government Board of Examiners for Cinema Operator, Chennai,
Remittance of the fees by money order, telegraph money order, cash or any
other method will not be accepted.(f)Apprenticeship registration certificate
issued to the applicant by the Board;(g)Evidence or authority indicating the
correctness of age of the applicant; and(h)Certificate issued by the Director
of Industries and Commerce in the case of the students of the Government
Central Polytechnic, Chennai.A candidate residing in the Tamil Nadu State
desiring to appear for the examination shall apply in the prescribed form
available with the Board only filling in all the particulars required therein
and send the same so as to reach the Secretary of the Government Board of
Examiners on or before the date notified.

### 8\. Candidates from other states. - In the case of candidates working in
any State other than the Tamil Nadu State or a centrally administered
territory of the Indian Union applying for the examinations in clause (a) to
(h) of rule 7 shall also produce a certificate of apprenticeship for a period
of two years in cinema theatres in the State or area from a Gazetted officer
in the State or area.

### 9\. Penalty for non-compliance of rules. - (a) An application not
accompanied by any one of the prescribed certificates or documents as stated
in rules 7 and 8 shall be rejected.

(b)A candidate who submits false information in his application for appearing
for the examination or a candidate found to have recourse to malpractice in
the examination shall be debarred by the Board for a period of three years
from the date of the examination for which he is applying or appearing, as the
case may be.

### 10\. The application of candidates who are not qualified to apply or to
sit for the examination or of those who do not conform to the rules of the
examination can be rejected by the Board even though the fees have been paid
and the fee shall be forfeited.

### 11\. Application received after the prescribed date or applications which
are not correctly and completely filed in, or in respect of which the
prescribed certificate and documents are not received on or before that date
and applications which do not otherwise fulfill the terms are liable to be
rejected summarily.

### 11\.

-A. (i) The competency certificate granted to any person under these regulations shall be liable to be withdrawn, suspected or cancelled, if in the opinion of the Board, he is found incompetent, adopts malpractices or has impersonated. The decision of the Board shall be final in all matters of issue of competency certificates, its suspension or cancellation.(ii)No order shall be issued under this Regulation unless the person concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the order proposed to be issued and unless explanation has been considered.

### 12\. Exemptions. - Exemption No. 1. - Army Personal-Ex-Army personal who
have served as first or second grade cinema operators or cinema projectionists
in the Army desirous of appearing for the examination shall be exempted from
undergoing apprenticeship in a licensed theatre. But, they shall conform to,
and fulfil all the other conditions of, the rules regarding examination and
grant of competency certificate.

Exemption No. 2. - The holders of Diploma in Cinematograph and Sound
Engineering issued by the former Technological Diploma Examination Board,
Chennai and the holders of Diploma in Film Technology issued by the State
Board of Technical Education and Training, Chennai shall be exempted from the
examination conducted by the Board of Examiners for Cinema Operators. Such
candidates shall be eligible to obtain the competency certificate issued by
the Board of Examiners for Cinema Operators and licence as per the rules after
registering themselves with the Board.They shall also pay the fees of
registration with the Board and for the issue of competency certificate and
licence as prescribed in regulation 2 and 3 above and regulation (1) in
Appendix III.Exemption No. 3. - Such other candidates as may be exempted by
the State Government subject to such conditions as may be specified.

### 13\. Candidates serving as apprentices in more than one theatre. - In the
case of a candidate who served as an apprentice during the period of one year
of his apprenticeship in more than one theatre, the following procedure shall
be adopted:-

(i)The candidate who has registered with the Board should intimate to the
Board the change of theatre, if any, during the period of his apprenticeship
(i.e.) the date of his leaving one theatre and joining other theatre and the
name and address such theatres.(ii)Every notice of such change shall be
accompanied by a letter of confirmation from the proprietor or the licensee of
a theatre where he has joined.(iii)The candidate shall get a certificate
testifying to the period of service from proprietor or the licensee of a
theatre at the time of leaving that theatre.(iv)The candidate's application
for appearing for the examination shall be accompanied by the certificates of
service issued by the proprietors or licensees of the theatres where he has
worked after registration.(v)The application should be signed by the last
employer and need not be counter signed by the proprietors of all the theatres
where he has worked.

### 14\. Licensed Operators from other Slates in the Indian Union or countries
other than India Union. - In the case of a person who is licensed operator in
any State other than Tamil Nadu State in the Indian Union or a centrally
administered territory of the Indian Union or in a country outside the Indian
Union and who seeks to appear for the examination conducted by this Board,
pre-registration may be waived, provided the candidate is able to produce a
certificate issued by the Licensing Authority or Chief Electrical Inspector of
the State, territory or country concerned to the effect that he served as a
licensed operator in cinema theatre in the State, territory or country for a
period of not less than three years and provided also be satisfies all other
rule governing the examination conducted by the Board which he should pass.

### 15\. Procedure regarding requisitioning for prescribed forms and
particulars. - Prescribed application, conduct and service certificate forms
relevant particulars and notification pertaining to the examination,
registration and to the issue of competency certificate can be had from the
Secretary, Government Board of Examiners for Cinema Operation Institute of
Film Technology, Buildings, Chennai - 20, by the candidates for the
examination or applying for issue of competency certificates on a requisition
in writing specifying the name of the post. Every such application shall be
accompanied sufficiently stamped and self-addressed envelope.

### 16\. The State Government may, by order in writing, exempt to such
conditions and restrictions as they may impose, any candidate from all or any
of the provisions of it regulations.

## Schedule

Conditions under which not more than 200 LB. of cinematograph film may be
stored in the premises licensed under the Tamil Nadu cinemas (regulation) act,
1955(vide rule 85 in Part V)Film shall be stored-

### 1\. (i) in a storage shed constructed of suitable uninflammable materials,
the doors and ventilators may be of wood, and shall be open outward, or

(ii)in a tent, placed on private grounds and separated by distance of not less
than 7.5 metres from any dwelling house, other buildings, highway, street or
public place.

### 2\. The storage shed or tent shall not be used for any other purpose.

### 3\. All film waste and scrap shall be disposed off immediately.

### 4\. Adequate precautions shall, at all times, be taken for the prevention
of accidents by fire or explosion and no smoking fire or articles capable of
causing fire to film shall be permitted at any time within the licensed
premises.

### 5\. The furniture and other articles shall be so arranged as to afford
free egress to persons in the event of fire.

### 6\. There shall be kept posted up in large charters in the room-

(i)full instructions as to the action to be taken in case of fire.(ii)full
directions as to the means of escape from the room in case of fire.

### 7\. Free access to the licensed premises shall be given at all reasonable
times to any Magistrate or any Police Officer not below the rank of a Sub-
Inspector of Police deputed by the District Collector or the Superintendent of
Police or the Electrical Inspector and every facility shall be afforded to
such officer for ascertaining that rules and conditions are duly observed.

### 8\. Any accident, fire or explosion occurring within the licensed premises
which is attended with loss of human life or serious injury to persons or
property shall be reported immediately to the nearest Magistrate or to the
officer-in-charge of the nearest police station and by telegram or telephone
where such means of communication are available.

### 9\. If the licensing authority calls upon the holder of a licence by a
notice in writing to execute any repairs to the licensed premises which are,
in the opinion of such authority, necessary for the safety of the premises,
the holder of a licence shall execute the repairs within such period not less
than one week from the date of receipt of notice as may be fixed in the
notice.

### 10\. All electric wiring and equipment shall conform to the regulations
for the electrical equipment of building by the Institution of Electrical
Engineers.

All electric wiring shall be in gas-tight screwed conditions which shall be
electrically and mechanically continuous throughout and effectively earthed
outside the building.Portable electric lights on extension cords shall not be
used in any storage or examining room.(vide G. O. Ms. No. 709, Home, dated the
10th March 1959.)

