## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Village Servants Service Rules, 1980

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Village Servants Service Rules, 1980

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-VILLAGE-SERVANTS-SERVICE-RULES-1980 of 1980

  * Published on 21 January 1981 
  * Commenced on 21 January 1981 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 January 1981.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Village Servants Service Rules, 1980Published vide
Notifications No. G.O. Ms. No. 141, Revenue, dated 21st January 1981 SRO B-72/
81In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the
Constitution of India and of all other powers hereunto enabling and in
supersession of the Tamil Nadu Village Officers Service Rules, 1970 and of the
Tamil Nadu Village Officers (Appointed under Board's Standing Orders) Service
Rules, 1978, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title, commencement extent and application.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Village Servants Service Rules,
1980.(2)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.(3)They extend to the whole of the State of
Tamil Nadu.(4)They shall apply to all Village Servants -(i)appointed on or
after the coming into force of these rules;(ii)appointed under the Madras
Proprietary Estates' Village Service Act, 1894 (Madras Act II of 1894) or the
Madras Hereditary Village Officers Act, 1895 (Madras Act III of 1895) and who
continue to hold office by virtue of sub-section (3) of section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Proprietary Estates' Village Service and the Tamil Nadu Hereditary
Village Officers (Repeal) Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1968); or(iii)under
the Tamil Nadu Village Officers (Appointed under the Board's Standing Orders)
Service Rules, 1978; and(iv)under the Tamil Nadu Village Officers Service
Rules, 1970 on the date of coming into force of these rules.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules,-(a)[ "Village Servant" means any person appointed as
Talayari ( ), Vetti (), or Nirganti (); [Substituted by G.O.Ms., 1495,
Revenue, dated 1.9.1984.](b)"Competent authority" means-(i)in the [Chennai]
district, the Personal Assistant (General) to the Collector of [Chennai]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act,
1996.] and(ii)in other districts, the Revenue Divisional officer having
jurisdiction over the revenue villages within his jurisdiction.]

### 3. Method of recruitment.

\- Appointment to the posts shall be made by direct recruitment.

### 4. Appointing authority.

\- The appointing authority for the posts shall be the Tahsildar or the Deputy
Tahsildar in independent charge, within his jurisdiction.

### 5. Qualifications.

(1)No person shall be eligible for appointment to the post of a Village
Servant, unless he possesses the qualifications specified below,
namely:-(i)knowledge to read and write Tamil; and(ii)knows cycling and is
physically fit.(2)The appointing authority shall also take into consideration
the following factors, namely:-(i)whether the applicant is a resident of the
charge of village;(ii)whether the applicant is a person belonging to one of
the communities included in the list of 1Backward Classes recognised by the
Government of Tamil Nadu;

### 1\. Backward Classes includes Most Backward Classes and Denotified
Communities also.

(iii)whether the applicant is a person belonging to Scheduled Castes/
Scheduled Tribes; and(iv)whether the applicant is an ex-serviceman.(3)In
making appointments under these rules, the appointing authority shall take
into consideration the character and antecedents of the applicants.

### 6. Temporary appointments.

\- Where it is necessary in public interest to fill immediately a vacancy of a
Village Servant and there would be undue delay in making such appointment in
accordance with these rules, the appointing authority may temporarily appoint
a person otherwise than in accordance with these rules. No such temporary
appointment shall be continued except for special reasons beyond a period of
three months.

### 7. Appointment in place of members dismissed or removed.

\- The temporary appointment of a Village Servant in a vacancy arising from
dismissal, removal or suspension of the previous incumbent shall terminate
automatically on the return of the previous incumbent to duty -(i)on the
revocation of the order of dismissal or removal on appeal or revision by the
appropriate authority or by orders of a Court of Law or;(ii)on the revocation
or the expiry of the period of suspension.

### 8. General qualification relating to age.

(1)No person shall be eligible for appointment to the post of a Village
Servant, unless he has completed the age of twenty-one years and has not
completed the age of forty years on the date noticed as the last date for the
receipt of application:Provided that in case of candidates belonging to
Schedule Castes and Schedule Tribe, the upper age limit shall be forty-five
years.

### 9. Appeals against the orders of appointment.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order of an appointment shall be entitled to
appeal to the Revenue Divisional Officer having jurisdiction within one month
from the date of receipt of the order appealed against:Provided that it shall
be open to the appellate authority concerned to entertain an appeal beyond the
time, if the appellate authority is satisfied that the delay is due to just
and sufficient causes.(2)The Revenue Divisional Officer may, pending exercise
of his powers under sub-rule (1), stay the execution of any order which is the
subject-matter of appeal under the said rule.(3)The decision of the Revenue
Divisional Officer on an appeal under sub-rule (1) shall, subject to the
provisions of rule 10, be final:Provided that no order prejudicial to any
person shall be passed unless such person has been given a reasonable
opportunity of making his representation against such order.

### 10. Revision.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 9, the Collector may, of his own
motion or on the application of the person aggrieved, call for and examine the
records relating to any order passed by the Revenue Divisional Officer for
reasons to be recorded in writing, annul, modify, reverse or remit for re-
consideration such order on any of the grounds specified in sub-rule (2)
below.(2)The grounds on which any order shall be annulled, modified, reversed
or remitted for re-consideration shall be as follows:-(i)if the order is
incorrect, or is vitiated by illegality or material irregularity or
impropriety or obvious error resulting in miscarriage of justice or want of
jurisdiction, or(ii)the authority concerned had failed to exercise the
jurisdiction vested in it under the rules or had exceeded such
jurisdiction:Provided that no order prejudicial to any person shall be passed
unless such person has been given a reasonable opportunity of making his
representation against such order.(3)An application tor revision under this
rule shall be made by the person aggrieved within three months from the date
of receipt of the order sought to be revised:Provided that it shall be open to
the revisionary authority to entertain a revision petition beyond time on
being satisfied that the delay is due to just and sufficient cause.(4)The
revisionary authority may, pending exercise of the powers of revision under
this rule, stay the execution or suspend the operation of any order which is
the subject-matter of revision under this rule.

### 11. Probation.

\- There shall be no probation for persons appointed to the post of a Village
Servant.

### 12. Transfer.

(1)The Village Servant may be transferred either on administrative grounds or
on request amounting to mutual transfer within the district, but such transfer
shall be made on valid grounds to be recorded in writing.(2)Any transfer under
sub-rule (1) shall be made by the Revenue Divisional Officer within a taluk
and the District Collector within the district.

### 13. Tenure of office.

(1)A Village Servant on attaining the age of sixty years shall retire and
shall not be retained in service:Provided that the Government may require a
Village Servant to retire, at any time after he has completed thirty years of
service, provided that the appointing authority shall give in this behalf a
notice in writing to the Village Servant at least three months before the date
on which he is required to retire.(2)The Village Servants are permitted to
avail themselves of a maximum period of twenty days' casual leave1 in a year
of which not more than three days casual leave can be availed of at a time.
The Village Administrative Officers are empowered to grant casual leave to the
Village Servant, provided suitable alternate arrangements are made for the
performance of the work.

### 1\. Now, restricted to twelve days of casual leave and three days of
restricted holiday.

(3)The appointing authority may grant leave without honorarium and other
allowances to Village Servants for period not exceeding six months at a time
subject to a maximum of five years during the tenure and may appoint a person
temporarily under rule 6, in his place during leave vacancy.

### 14. [ Amount to be paid on retirement. [Substituted by GO. Ms. No.1495,
Revenue, dated 1.9.1984.]

(1)Every person who ceases to hold the post of part-time Village Servant by
reason of sub-rule (i) of rule 13, shall be paid an amount for the total
service put in by him as part-time Village Servant and such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the provision of sub-rule (2).(2)The amount
referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be calculated at the rate of one-half of the
monthly emoluments for every year of total service put in by the person
referred to in sub-rule (1).Explanation. - For the purpose of this
rule,-(a)Where the total service,-(i)includes a period which is a portion of a
year; or(ii)is a period less than a year, the amount payable for the period
referred to in sub-clause (i) or (ii), as the, case may be, shall be an amount
bearing to the amount payable for one year of total service, the same portion
as the said period bears to a period of one year of total service;(b)"monthly
emoluments" shall mean-(i)Honorarium;(ii)Panchayat Development Allowance,
which were payable to the part-time Village Servant for the whole of the
calendar month immediately proceeding the date of his retirement, and(iii)an
amount equal to one-twelfth of the consolidated annual travelling allowance
for the year ending with the 31st March of the year of retirement:Provided
that where the part-time Village Servant was on leave other than casual leave
or was absent without authorisation, or was under suspension, during the whole
or part of the month proceeding his retirement, the monthly emoluments shall
mean,-(i)Honorarium; and(ii)Panchayat Development Allowance, which would have
been payable to him for the whole of the said month preceding his retirement,
but for such leave, absence or suspension; and(iii)an amount equal to one
twelfth of the consolidated annual travelling allowance for the year ending
with the 31st March of the year of retirement;(c)"total service" shall not
include any period during which a part-time Village Servant was-(i)on leave
other than casual leave, or(ii)absent without authorisation, or(iii)under
suspension.(3)(a)The competent authority shall, on an application made,
determine by an order in writing the amount to be paid under sub-rule (1) and
such order shall, subject to an appeal under sub-rule (6), be final;(b)(i)The
application referred to in clause (a) shall be made by the person, referred to
in sub-rule (1), or in the event of death of such person by his legal heir or
heirs, in Form-A. It shall be made in duplicate and sent to the competent
authority within sixty days from the date of retirement of the person referred
to in sub-rule (1):Provided that the competent authority may, for just and
sufficient cause, condone any delay in this regard.(ii)On receipt of the
application under clause (a), the competent authority shall forward one copy
of the application to the Tahsildar concerned and obtain his report regarding
the correctness of the particulars furnished in the application. The Tahsildar
shall send this report to the competent authority within thirty days from the
date of receipt of the application from the competent authority. Where records
are not readily available to certify the correctness of the particulars
furnished in the application, the Tahsildar shall make a through search for
such records, make necessary enquires in his office or elsewhere and send the
report to the competent authority within sixty days from the date of receipt
of the application from the competent authority.(4)Determination of amount by
competent authority. - (i) On receipt of the report from the Tahsildar, the
competent authority shall determine the amount payable under this rule after
taking into account, the total service put in by the Part-time Village
Servant;(ii)the competent authority shall, after arriving at the amount under
sub-rule (1), issue a notice in Form B to the part-time Village Servant or his
legal heir/ heirs;(iii)after considering the representation, if any, of the
part -time Village Servant or his legal heir/ heirs, the competent authority
shall pass an order determining the amount in Form C.(5)Payment of amount. -
Based on the order of the competent authority determining the amount payable
under this rule, the Tahsildar concerned shall, cause the amount to be paid
within a period of three months-(a)in case where there is no appeal, from the
date of the order of the competent authority under sub-rule (4);(b)in case
where there is appeal, from the date of the order of the District Collector
under sub-rule (6).(6)Appeal to District Collector. - (i) Any person aggrieved
by the order of the competent authority passed under sub-rule (4) determining
the amount payable under this rule, may prefer an appeal to the District
Collector concerned enclosing a copy of the order appealed against, within
thirty days from the date of receipt of the order of the competent
authority.(ii)On receipt of the appeal under clause (i), the District
Collector shall call for a report and connected records from the competent
authority and, after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the
appellant, pass an order on the appeal.(7)The order passed by the District
Collector under sub-rule (6) shall be final.]

### 15. [ Resignation. [Rule 15 was renumbered as Rule 18 and Rules 15, 16 and
17 were added by G.O. Ms. No. 1495, Revenue, dated 1.9.1984.]

(1)A Village Servant may resign the post by submitting his resignation to the
appointing authority.(2)The resignation shall take effect on acceptance
thereof by the appointing authority and it shall not, thereafter, be
withdrawn.

### 16. Fundamental Rules and the Tamil Nadu Leave Rules, 1978, etc., not to
apply.

(1)The provisions of the Fundamental Rules and the Tamil Nadu Leave Rules,
1978, shall not apply to the Village Servants.(2)The posts are non-
pensionable.

### 17. Residence.

\- The Village Servant shall reside in the village under his charge.]

### 18. [] [Rule 15 was renumbered as Rule 18.] Rules not to apply to certain
persons referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 5.

\- Nothing contained in these rules shall adversely affect a person holding
the post on the date of coming into force of these rules.Form A[See Rule 14(3)
(a)]Application (In Duplicate) for Payment of Amount

### 1\. (a) Name of the applicant and his present/ permanent address.

(b)If the applicant is a legal heir, name of the erstwhile part-time Village
Officer.

### 2\. Designation of the part-time post held previously. (Village Headman or
Additional Village Headman Kamam or Additional Kamam/ Triune Officer) with
particulars of name of the village and taluk.

### 3\. Date from which the applicant/ erstwhile part-time Village Officer was
holding the post.

### 4\. Total service rendered in the post excluding the period on leave other
than casual leave or absent without authorisation or under suspension. (Year,
month and date to be correctly specified.)

### 5\. Total amount of monthly emoluments (including honorarium, Panchayat
Development Allowance and one twelfth of the consolidated annual travelling
allowance) for the year ending 31st March 1980.

### 6\. Amount of half monthly total emoluments claimed as per the Act.

I hereby certify that the particulars furnished above are true to the best of
my knowledge. I request that the amount specified in column (8) may be
sanctioned and paid to me.Station:Date:Signature of Applicant.Form B[See Rule
4(2)]NoticePursuant to section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Abolition of Posts of Part-
time Village Officers Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 3 of 1981), it is proposed to
make payment of a sum of Rs as indicated below to Thiru ....................
erstwhile Village Headman/ Karnam/ Triune Officer of...............village.

1. |  Total service put in by the erstwhile VillageHeadman/ Karnam/ Triune Officer (in number of years and portionthereof) |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Monthly emoluments of the erstwhileVillageHeadman/ Karnam/ Triune Officer | Rs. P.  
| (i) Honorarium. |   
| (ii) Panchayat Development Allowance. |   
|  (iii) One-twelfth of the consolidated annual travellingallowance. |   
| Total |   
3. | Amount due to the erstwhile Village Servant. |   
  
(Rupees ................................... ................................
(in words)Please take notice that the application for payment of amount has
been posted for hearing on (day) at A.M./ P.M. before
the....................... (Competent authority). You are requested to appear
before the............. (Competent authority) on that date, time and place,
either in person or through your authorised representative, with all
documentary evidence in support of your' claim. If you do not appear in person
or authorised representative on your behalf, it shall be presumed that you
have no representation to make and orders will be passed on the merits of the
case.Competent authority.ToErstwhile Village Headman/ Kamam/ Triune
Officer.Address:(By registered post with acknowledgment due)Form C[See Rule
14(4) (iii)]Proceedings of the Competent Authority[Under section 5(3) of the
Tamil Nadu Abolition of Posts of Part-time Village Officers Act, 1981]R. Dis.
No.
...............................dated................................Present:.................Designation:.............Subject:
Village
Officers........................District...................Taluk.Village Part-
time Village Officers - Retired on attaining the age of sixty years - Payment
of amount under rule 14(1) of the Tamil Nadu Village ServantsService Rules-
sanctioned.Reference: (1) Application, dated from Thiru..........(2)Letter
No....................dated of the TahsildarIn his application first cited,
Thiru ........... Son of............ Part-time Village
Servant............Village.........Taluk has applied for payment of
Rupees...............under rule 14(1) of the Tamil Nadu Village Servants
Service Rules, 1980. From the report of the Tahsildar............ second
cited, it is seen that he is the person/ legal heir to the person, who has
ceased to hold the post of Part-time Village Servant by reason of his
retirement under rule 13 of the said rules. The erstwhile Part-time Village
Servant had actually put in...........years of service excluding the period of
leave, other than casual leave, absence without authorisation and under
suspension. Accordingly, the applicant/ erstwhile Village Servant is entitled
for payment of Rs............(in words). In the circumstances, under rule
14(4) of the Tamil Nadu Village Servants Rules, 1980,1 hereby sanction Rs. -
............ (Rupees .............) to Thiru............ erstwhile Village
Servant of...........Village.The applicant is further informed that if the
amount sanctioned is afterwards found to be in excess of that to which he is
entitled under the rules, he shall be called upon to refund such excess.

### 2\. The expenditure will be debited to the following Head of Account:-

"253. A. District Administration - A.B. Other Establishment-I. Non-plan-AD.
Ryotwari Village Services - 26. Other charges -7. Payment of amount under the
Tamil Nadu Village Servants Service Rules, 1980. (D.P. Code 253A ABAD 2677)"

### 3\. The Tahsildar,............Taluk, is directed to draw the amount and
send it to the applicant by Demand Draft within a month on proper
acknowledgment and file the receipt for payment.

Competent Authority.ToThiru ....................Erstwhile Village
Servant.Address : .................By Registered PostCopy to the Tahsildar
concerned taluk for claim and payment.Copy to the Sub-Treasury Officer
concerned.Copy to Bills.

