## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers (Social Security and Welfare)
Scheme, 2006

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers (Social Security and Welfare)
Scheme, 2006

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-AGRICULTURAL-LABOURERS-FARMERS-SOCIAL-SECURITY-AND-
WELFARE-SCHEME-2006 of 2006

  * Published on 29 December 2006 
  * Commenced on 29 December 2006 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 December 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers (Social Security and Welfare)
Scheme, 2006Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 852, Revenue (LRI(2),
dated 29th December 2006 - No. 2(1)/ REV/ 58 (f)/ 2006Published in Part II-
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Extraordinary, dated the 29th December
2006.In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3 of
the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers (Social Security and Welfare)
Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 2006), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes
the following Scheme:-

### 1. Short title, extent and application.

(1)This Scheme may be called the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers
(Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006.(2)It extends to the whole of the
State of Tamil Nadu (except Chennai District).(3)It shall apply to all
agricultural labourers and farmers as defined under sub-clauses (b) and (f) of
clause 2.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Scheme, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers (Social Security and Welfare) Act,
2006;(b)"agricultural labourer" means, any person in the age group of 18 to 65
years, engaged to work in agricultural or allied agricultural operations for
wages but who does not own any land;(c)"Board" means the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Labourers Welfare Board" established under sub-section (1) of
section 5 of the Act;(d)"Committee" means a district level, taluk level or
village level Committee, as the case may be, constituted under sub-section (1)
of section 8 of the Act;(e)"dependent" in relation to an agricultural labourer
or farmer means any of the relatives of such member as specified
below:-(i)Wife or husband, as the case may be;(ii)Children;(iii)Widow and
children of the pre-deceased son; and(iv)Parents;(f)"farmer" means a farmer in
the age group of 18 to 65 years who owns wet land not exceeding 2.50 acres or
dry land not exceeding 5.00 acres and engaged in direct cultivation of that
land and includes a registered cultivating tenant;(g)"Form" means the form
appended to this Scheme;(h)"Fund" means the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers
- Farmers Social Security and Welfare Fund constituted under the
Scheme;(i)"registered cultivating tenant" means a person in the age group of
18 to 65 years, who holds wet land not exceeding 2.50 acres or dry land not
exceeding 5.00 acres under a registered tenancy agreement and carry on direct
cultivation of that land.Explanation. - For the purpose of sub-clauses (f) and
(i), in the case of a holding consisting both wet and dry land, 0.50 acre of
wet land shall be equal to one acre of dry land;(j)"Rule" means Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Labourers-Farmers (Social Security and Welfare) Rules,
2006;(k)"Member-Secretary" means the Commissioner of Land Reforms and Member-
Secretary of the Board constituted under section 5 of the Act;(l)words and
expressions not defined, but used in this Scheme shall have the respective
meaning assigned to them in the Act and rules.

### 3. Powers, duties and functions of the Board.

(1)Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Board may take such measures, as
it may consider necessary for implementing the Scheme.(2)The Board
shall-(a)maintain and administer the Fund and collect the contributions
towards the Fund;(b)subject to the provisions of the Scheme, hold any property
vested with it and shall be utilised by it only for the purposes of the
Scheme;(c)have the authority to spend such sum as it thinks fit, for the
purposes of the Scheme from out of the Fund;(d)keep proper accounts for all
receipts and expenses under the Scheme;(e)submit annual budget to the
Government for sanction of fund for the Scheme;(f)submit annual report to the
Government on the working of the Scheme as laid down under sub-section (3) of
sect ion 7 of the Act:(g)submit to the Government copies of all the
proceedings of the meetings of the Board;(h)make all necessary arrangements
for the annual audit of accounts of the Board in accordance with the
instructions issued by the Government under sub-section (2) of section 11 of
the Act;(i)furnish information to the Government on such matters as the
Government may refer to it, from time to time.(3)The Board may,-(a)accept
deposits from persons, authorities or establishments on such conditions, as it
deem fit;(b)delegate necessary and adequate powers to the Member-Secretary for
effective implementation of the Scheme(c)delegate powers to the authorities
concerned to sanction and disburse the financial assistance to the
beneficiaries for speedy and proper implementation of the Scheme;(d)distribute
the fund with quarterly/ half-yearly/ annual allocation for each category of
the various reliefs or assistances of the Scheme to the District Collectors
and other concerned departments and regulate the manner in which the fund has
to be maintained and distributed by them for the purposes of the
Scheme;(e)convene the meeting of the Board once in a quarter or at any time as
it may require, to review the progress;(f)make recommendations to the
Government about modifications, which are considered necessary in the
Scheme;(g)specify forms, records, registers and statements, if so required, in
addition to such of those forms, appended to this Scheme, for the
administration of the Scheme and revise any such forms, records, registers,
statements, etc., and also specify production of additional certificates,
records along with such forms, records, registers, statements, etc.

### 4. Powers and functions of the Member-Secretary.

(1)The Member-Secretary shall, with the approval of the Chairman of the Board,
issue notices to convene meetings of the Board and keep the record of minutes
and shall take necessary steps for carrying out the decisions of the
Board.(2)The Member-Secretary shall issue necessary instructions to the
implementing officers for proper implementation of the Scheme.

### 5. Administrative and financial powers of the Member-Secretary.

(1)The Member-Secretary may, without reference to the Board, sanction an
expenditure on contingencies, services and procurement at goods, articles,
etc., subject to the limit up to which he may be authorised to sanction
expenditure as delegated by the Board.(2)The Member-Secretary may also
exercise such administrative and financial powers in addition to those
specified in sub-clause (1) above, as may be delegated to him, from time to
time, by the Board.

### 6. Registration of members of the Scheme.

(1)All agricultural labourers and farmers enumerated and identified by the
village level committees constituted by the Government in this regard shall be
registered as members of the Scheme on such persons making an application in
Form No. I, to the Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) of the
respective taluks.(2)Any agricultural labourer or farmer (including a
cultivating tenant), who owns wet land not exceeding 2.50 acres or dry land
not exceeding 5.00 acres and engaged in direct cultivation of that land and
who has completed the age of 18 years but not completed 65 years, may register
his/ her name to become a member of the Scheme.(3)There shall be no fee for
registration as a member under the Scheme.(4)Application for such registration
shall be made in Form No. I appended to this Scheme together with a
certificate of employment issued by any of the persons or officers specified
below:-(a)Employer of any agricultural labourer engaged in agricultural
operations;(b)President or the General Secretary of a registered Trade Union
of the employment of agriculture concerned or any other office bearer of the
said Trade Union authorised by the said President or General Secretary in
writing imthis behalf;(c)Any officer not below the rank of a Deputy Tahsildar
in the Revenue Department;(d)The Village Administrative Officer concerned, in
respect of a farmer who owns wet land upto 2.50 acres or dry land upto 5.00
acres;(e)The Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) in the case of a
registered cultivating tenant, after due verification of the taluk register of
tenancy records.(5)Every registered member shall file a nomination in Form No.
II and revise it in cases of either acquiring a family or having any legal
change in the status of the family:Provided that any nomination made by such
registered member in favour of a person who is not a member of his family
shall be void.(6)Every registered member whose name has been registered under
the Scheme shall be issued with an Identity Card for a family as in Form No.
Ill free of cost by the Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme). This
Identity Card shall be ensured for permanent use of the members as proof of
identity.(7)In case of loss of Identity Card, a duplicate Identity Card shall
be issued by the Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) on an application
made by the registered member concerned and on payment of rape twenty. The
said amount of rupees twenty shall be collected by the Village Administrative
Officer and the collected amount remitted to the fund by means of demand draft
through the Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme). The Receipt Book as
specified in Form XIV, Register for issue duplicate Identity Cards shall be
maintained by the Village Administrative Officers.

### 7. Suspension and cancellation of membership.

(1)The Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) may, if he has any
reasonable cause to believe that the membership under the Scheme has been
secured by a registered member by making any statement in relation to any
application or the registration, which is incorrect or false or in
contravention of any of the provisions of the Act, or rules or Scheme framed
under the Act, suspend such membership pending the completion of enquiry
against the holder of such membership.(2)The Special Tahsildar (Social
Security Scheme) may, if he is satisfied, after making such inquiry as he may
think fit, that the registered member has made a false or incorrect statement
of the nature referred to in sub-clause (1) or has contravened any of the
provisions of the Act or rules or Scheme framed under the Act, cancel such
membership:Provided that no such membership shall be cancelled, unless the
holder thereof has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
against the proposed cancellation.(3)Every registered member whose membership
has been cancelled shall forfeit all his claims under the Scheme.

### 8. Appeal.

(1)Any registered member aggrieved by the order passed by the authority
referred to in sub-clause (2) of clause 7 shall prefer an appeal to the
Revenue Divisional Officer concerned within thirty days from the date of
receipt of such order. The Revenue Divisional Officer may, for valid reasons
to be recorded in writing, allow such appeal after a period of thirty days,
but not exceeding sixty days. The Revenue Divisional Officer shall dispose of
the appeal within a period of two months from the date of filing of such
appeal, after giving an opportunity to the aggrieved registered member.(2)The
District Collector may, of his own motion or on an application from any
registered member aggrieved by the order of the appellate authority, call for
and examine the records in respect of any proceeding made under sub-clause (1)
to satisfy himself as to the regularity of such proceeding or the correctness,
legality or propriety of any decision or order passed thereon; and if, in any
case, it appears to the District Collector that any such proceeding, decision
or order should be modified, annulled or reversed or remitted for
reconsideration, he may pass orders accordingly:Provided that the District
Collector shall not pass any order prejudicial to the interest of the
registered member, unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.

### 9. Maintenance of registers.

\- The Village Administrative Officer and the Special Tahsildar (Social
Security Scheme) shall maintain a Membership Register in Form No. IV. The
taluk register shall be maintained village-wise and the number assigned to
each member in column 6 of Form No. IV shall be the registration number to be
entered in the Identity Card of the registered member.

### 10. Financial allocation for the implementation of the Scheme.

\- The financial allocation for the payment under the various categories of
reliefs or assistances of the Scheme shall be made by the Government by means
of an annual budget allocation.

### 11. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers Social Security and
Welfare Fund.

(1)There shall be constituted a fund called the "Tamil Nadu Agricultural
Labourers-Farmers Social Security and Welfare Fund" to which shall be
credited,-(a)the financial allocation made by the Government;(b)all
contributions received by the Board under sub-section (4) of section 9 of the
Act;(c)all monies received by the Board by way of sale or disposal of
properties and other assets;(d)interest on investments in securities and
deposits and rents;(e)all monies received by the Board in any other manner or
from any other source.(2)All monies received by the Board and forming part of
the Fund shall be held in any of the nationalised banks or any of the co-
operative banks under the control and supervision of the Tamil Nadu State Co-
operative Bank, or any other Bank as may be specified by the Board, with the
approval of the Government, from time to time. Such account shall be jointly
operated by any two of the authorised signatories of the Board, one of them
being the Member-Secretary.

### 12. Contributions.

\- All remittances payable to the fund shall be rounded off to the nearest
rupee.

### 13. Renewal of registration.

(1)Every registered member whose name has been registered under clause 6
[shall renew his registration before the expiry of the period of every five
years] [Substituted for 'shall renew his registration before the expiry of the
period of every three years' by Notification No. II(1)/ Rev/ 2/ 2010, G.O. Ma.
No. 34, Revenue (LR-I), dated 25.1.2010, published dated 17.2 2010.].(2)There
shall not be any fee for renewal of registration.(3)A registered member who
fails to renew his registration shall get his registration renewed on payment
of Rs. 5 per year for every year of default.

### 14. Collection of fee for default of renewal of membership.

\- The fee for default of renewal as specified under sub-clause (3) of clause
13 shall be collected by the Village Administrative Officers. The collected
amount shall be remitted to the Fund by means of demand draft through the
Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme). The Receipt Book as specified in
Form XIII, register for registration of members and renewal shall be
maintained by the Village Administrative Officers.

### 15. Intimation about change of place of residence of the registered
member, etc.

(1)Every registered member who migrates from one place to another place shall,
within thirty days of such change, intimate such change of place to the
Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) by a letter sent by registered post
or delivered in person.(2)Thereafter, the Special Tahsildar (Social Security
Scheme) shall cause necessary enquiries to be made and after satisfying
himself of the change of place, issue a proceedings to delete the name of the
registered member from the Membership Register and send the same to the
Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) concerned for necessary action. A
copy of the proceedings shall also be sent to the concerned registered member.
On receipt of such proceedings, the concerned registered member shall apply to
the Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) concerned to enter his name in
the Membership Register relating to the new place of residence and the Special
Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme), after causing necessary enquiries to be
made, shall issue a proceedings for the inclusion of the name of the
registered member in the Membership Register maintained by him at the relevant
place and cause such entries to be made. He shall make and attest such entries
as may be necessary in the Identity Card of the member. Thereafter all the
reliefs or assistances under the Scheme available to the registered member
shall be payable at the new place where the registered member resides.(3)If a
registered member migrates to another place temporarily for a period not
exceeding one year, and who shall, in all probability return to his original
place of residence, his name shall not be deleted from the Membership Register
and he shall continue to claim and receive the reliefs or assistances payable
at his permanent place of residence.

### 16.

When a registered member dies or a new member is included in the family, the
same shall be intimated to the concerned Special Tahsildar (Social Security
Scheme) in writing, who shall cause necessary verification to be made and
thereafter order for the inclusion or deletion of the name, as the case may
be, and cause such corrections to be made in the Membership Register and
Identity Card and attest the same.

### 17. Utilisation of fund.

(1)The Fund of the Scheme shall vest in and be held and applied by the Board
as trustees subject to the provisions and for the purposes of the Scheme.(2)It
shall be lawful for the Board to invest the monies in any Government financial
institutions, Co-operative Banks, Nationalised Banks or Corporations
authorised by the Government, which offers the highest rate of interest as on
the date of such investments.(3)If any contribution credited in the "Fund" is
found to be in excess of the immediate requirements of the Board at any stage,
the Board may, on a resolution passed by it, consider to credit it to the
account of the Government. The mode of such transfer of fund may be prescribed
by the Government at the time of such a contingency.

### 18. Accident relief.

(1)A registered member when met with an accident (either in the working place
or in any other place) is eligible to avail the assistance under this
clause.Explanation 1. - For the purpose of this clause, "accident" means death
or loss of hands or legs or sight or limbs resulting solely and directly from
accident, either in the working place (in the course of his employment) or in
any other place, but does not include any intentional self injury, suicide,
attempted suicide, injury caused while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs or resulting from the registered member committing any breach
of the law or rules or regulations or instructions applicable, from time to
time.Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, death due to accident
shall include death due to snake bite or caused by any poisonous insects or by
lightning.(2)The risk specified in sub-clause (1) above covered by the Scheme
and the amount of relief or assistances payable shall be as follows:-(a)Death-
Rs. 1,00,000(b)Loss of actual physical separation of total and irrecoverable
loss of or use of:-

(i) | both hands; or |   
---|---|---  
(ii) | both legs; or |   
(iii) | one hand and one leg; or | Rs. 1,00,000  
(iv) | total and irrecoverable loss of sight in both eyes. |   
  
(c)Loss of actual physical separation of total and irrecoverable loss of or
use of:---

(i) | one hand; |   
---|---|---  
(ii) | or one leg. | Rs. 50,000  
  
(d)Loss of limbs from grievous injuries other than those specified in items
(b) and (c) above Rs. 20,000.(3)(a)Immediately upon the happening of any
accident resulting in loss of hands or legs or sight or limbs or death, the
registered member or his nominee, as the case may be, shall send a report to
the Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) and to the Police in Form No.
V, within three days of such occurrence of the accident. The Special Tahsildar
(Social Security Scheme) shall make an enquiry either on the report of
accident received from the registered member or his nominee. In the absence of
First Information Report issued by the Police, the assistance shall not be
given.(b)In the case of loss of hands or legs or sight or limbs as specified
in items (b) to (d) of sub-clause (2), the claim shall be made by the
registered member concerned and in the event of death of a registered member,
the claim shall be made by his nominee in Form No. VI.(c)In the case of loss
of hands or legs or sight or limbs due to accident, the claimant shall produce
a medical certificate issued by a Medical Officer not below the rank of a
Civil Assistant Surgeon.(d)In the case of death of the registered member due
to accident, death certificate and post-mortem certificate issued by a
Government Medical Officer not below the rank of Assistant Civil Surgeon or an
authority who is competent to issue such certificate shall be produced by the
claimant. If there is delay for more than thirty days in getting the post-
mortem certificate, the certificate given by the Tahsildar in this regard
shall be produced.(e)The Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) shall
sanction the relief or assistance to the registered member or his nominee, as
the case may be, in respect of accidents specified in sub-clauses (c) and (d)
above respectively.

### 19. Assistance to meet the funeral expenses of a registered member.

(1)If a registered member dies, the Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme)
shall sanction a sum of Rs. 2,500 (Rupees two thousand five hundred only) to
the nominee of the deceased registered member to meet the funeral expenses of
the deceased registered member.(2)The application for claiming the amount
specified in sub-clause (1) shall be in Form No. VII and shall be accompanied
by the death certificate of the deceased registered member and the original
Identity Card issued under the Scheme to the deceased registered member. The
original Identity Card shall be returned to such other registered member(s)
after making due entries regarding the death of the deceased registered member
and due authentication made therein by the Special Tahsildar (Social Security
Scheme) for further use of the existing members.

### 20. Assistance on the natural death of a registered member.

(1)If a registered member dies naturally, the Special Tahsildar (Social
Security Scheme) shall sanction a sum of Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only)
to the nominee of the deceased registered member.(2)The application for
claiming the amount specified in sub-clause (1) 1 shall be in Form No. VII and
shall be accompanied by the death certificate of the deceased registered
member and the original Identity Card issued to the deceased registered
member. The original Identity Card shall be returned to such other registered
member(s) after making due entries regarding the death of the deceased
registered member and due authentication made therein by the Special Tahsildar
(Social Security Scheme) for further use of the existing members.

### 21. Assistance for the education of children of a registered member.

(1)The assistance for the education of the children of a registered member and
the authority competent to sanction the assistance shall be as follows:-

SI. No. | Course of Study | Day Scholar | Hosteller | Sanctioning Authority  
---|---|---|---|---  
Boys(Rs.) | Girls(Rs.) | Boys(Rs.) | Girls(Rs.)  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
1. | 10th Std. passed | 1250 | 1500 | \--- | \--- | District Educational Officer  
2. | 12th Standard passed | 1750 | 2000 | \--- | \--- | Chief Educational Officer  
3. | ITI and Polytechnic (per year) | 1250 | 1750 | 1450 | 1950 |  ITI Deputy Director/ Principal/ TrainingSuperintendent and concerned Training Institute Special Officer.Polytechnic Director of Technical Education, Chennai or theOfficer authorized by him.  
4. | Bachelor Degree (per year) | 1750 | 2250 | 2000 | 2500 |  Director of Collegiate Education or the Officer authorised byhim.  
5. | Post Graduate Degree (per year) | 2250 | 2750 | 3250 | 3750  
6. |  Professional Course in Law, Engineering,Medicine, Veterinary Science, Agriculture or allied courses (peryear) | 2250 | 2750 | 4250 | 4750 |  Law:Director of Legal Studies, Chennai orthe officer authorised by him.Engineering :Director ofTechnical Education, Chennai or the officer authorised byhim.Medicine :Director of Medical Education, Chennai orthe officer authorised by him.Veterinary Science :Registrar,Veterinary and Animal Science University, Madhavaram,Chennai.Agriculture :Registrar, Tamil Nadu AgriculturalUniversity, Coimbatore.  
7. | Post-graduate Professional Courses (per year) | 4250 | 475 | 6250 | 6750  
  
(2)The application for assistance under sub-clause (1) shall be in Form No.
VIII.(3)Where both husband and wife in a family have applied for assistance
under this clause, only one of them shall be eligible to get the
assistance.(4)The application shall be sent to the concerned authorities
specified in column (5) of the tabular column under sub-clause (1) through the
Headmaster or Principal or Dean of the educational institution concerned. On
receipt of such application, the head of the institution shall record his
recommendations regarding the sanction of assistance and send it to the
concerned sanctioning authority without any delay.(5)There is no restriction
on the number of children in a family for availing the educational assistance.

### 22. Assistance for marriage of the registered member or of the son or
daughter of a registered member.

(1)The Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) shall, on an application
from a registered member, sanction a sum of Rs. 3,000 (Rupees three thousand
only) for men and Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) for women as
assistance to meet the marriage expenses of the registered member or of the
son or daughter of the registered member, as the case may be:Provided that the
assistance shall be sanctioned, only if the person for whose marriage the
assistance is sought for shall have attained the age prescribed by law for the
marriage.(2)Where both husband and wife in a family have applied for
assistance to the marriage of his or her son or daughter under this clause,
only one of them shall be eligible to get the assistance.(3)The application
for assistance under sub-clause (1) shall be in Form No. IX.(4)There is no
restriction on the number of son or daughter of a registered member for
availing the assistance.

### 23. Assistance for delivery or miscarriage of pregnancy or termination of
pregnancy by a registered female member.

(1)The Medical Officer of the concerned Block Primary Health Centre shall, on
an application from a registered female member, sanction a sum of Rs. 6,000
(rupees six thousand only), on her producing proof of pregnancy to her. The
amount of assistance shall be paid to the registered female member in six
equal installments at the rate of Rs. 1,000 per installment from the seventh
month of pregnancy.(2)The Medical Officer of the concerned Block Primary
Health Centre shall, on an application from a registered female member,
sanction a sum of Rs. 3,000 (rupees three thousand only), on her producing
proof of either miscarriage of her pregnancy or the termination of her
pregnancy.(3)There is no restriction on the number of occasions for availing
the assistance by the registered female member.(4)The application for claiming
the assistance specified in sub-clauses (1) and (2) shall be in Form No.
X.(5)The application specified in sub-clauses (1) and (2) shall be sent to the
Medical Officer of the concerned Block Primary Health Centre along with the
recommendations of the Village Health Nurse and the Village Administrative
Officer concerned.

### 24. Old age pension for a registered member.

(1)The Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme), on an application from a
registered member, shall sanction a monthly pension of Rs. 400 (rupees four
hundred only) for a destitute registered member, who has completed 60 years of
age.(2)In order to avail the assistance under sub-clause (1), the registered
member shall be incapable of doing manual labour and destitute irrespective of
whether he has sons or daughters.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Scheme, a registered member, who has been sanctioned the assistance under sub-
clause (1) shall cease to be a member of the Scheme for the purpose of
availing any other relief or assistance under the Scheme.(4)The application
for the assistance under sub-clause (1) shall be in Form No. XI.

### 25. Scheme not to apply in certain cases.

\- The relief or assistance as under clauses 18 to 24 above shall not be
claimed, if a relief or assistance or grant for a similar nature was availed
under any other Central or State Government Schemes.

### 26. Implementation of the Scheme.

(1)In respect of the relief or assistance for marriage, accidental death or
injury, natural death, funeral expenses and old age pension, the Special
Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) shall implement the scheme under the
control of the respective District Collector. In respect of the assistance for
delivery, miscarriage of pregnancy and termination of pregnancy, the Medical
Officer of the concerned Block Primary Health Centre shall implement the
Scheme under the control of the Project Director, Reproductive and Child
Health Project, Chennai and in respect of educational assistance, the
concerned Heads of Departments or the Officers as specified in column 5 of the
tabular column under sub-clause (1) of clause 21, shall implement the Scheme
under the control of the Heads of Departments concerned. In respect of
educational assistance for Veterinary and Animal Science and Agriculture
students, the concerned University Registrars shall implement the Scheme. The
Member-Secretary shall monitor the implementation of the Scheme. He shall also
be empowered to issue necessary instructions, from time to time, to the
Implementing Officers of the Scheme for the effective implementation.(2)All
applications for relief or assistance for accident relief, funeral, natural
death, marriage and old age pension shall be sent to the Special Tahsildar
(Social Security Scheme) by the registered member or his nominee, as the case
maybe. In respect of educational assistance, the application along with the
certificate of the concerned Village Administrative Officer shall be sent to
the concerned authorities through the Headmaster or Principal or Dean of the
concerned educational institution. In respect of assistance for delivery or
miscarriage of pregnancy or termination of pregnancy, the application along
with the certificate of the concerned Village Administrative Officer and
Village Health Nurse shall be sent to the Medical Officer of the concerned
Block Primary Health Centre.(3)All reliefs or assistances under the Scheme
shall be paid by the sanctioning authorities concerned by way of cheque to the
beneficiaries within five days from the date of issue of the order of
sanction. A system shall be evolved in due course so that the sanctioned
amount is credited directly to the bank account of the beneficiaries.

### 27. Enquiry, inspection, monitoring, review and reporting.

(1)Assistance relating to Revenue Department. -(a)In respect of the
applications for relief or assistance under the scheme received by the Special
Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme), the Village Administrative Officer shall
make a thorough enquiry and verification on the application and then he shall
submit his report to the concerned Firka Revenue Inspector. The Village
Administrative Officer shall maintain separate registers for each category of
the relief or assistance provided in the Scheme, as specified in Form No. XII.
He shall make necessary entries in the relevant register on receipt of
application under the Scheme. This register shall be checked by the higher
officers periodically and Jamabandhi Officer at the time of Jamabandhi.(b)The
Revenue Inspector shall scrutinise the enquiry report of the Village
Administrative Officer and after personal inspection or enquiry, recommend the
case for sanction or rejection with specific remarks lo the Special Tahsildar
(Social Security Scheme). The Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) shall
personally overcheck at least 10 per cent of the cases through field enquiry.
The cases recommended for rejection by the Village Administrative Officer or
Revenue Inspector shall also be included for the purpose of inspection or
enquiry.(c)The cases which were recommended for rejection by the Village
Administrative Officer shall also be enquired by the Revenue Inspector.(d)The
Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) shall scrutinise the cases received
from the Revenue Inspector and pass orders based on the recommendations.(e)The
Revenue Divisional Officer shall conduct personal inspection or enquiry of at
least one per cent of the cases sanctioned by the Special Tahsildar (Social
Security Scheme) every month.(f)A quarterly inspection of the office of the
Special Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme) shall be made by the Collector or
District Revenue Officer and a monthly inspection by the Revenue Divisional
Officer.(2)Assistance relating to Education Department. - (a) In respect of
educational assistance, the concerned recommending authorities and the
sanctioning authorities as specified in column (5) of the tabular column under
sub-clause (1) of clause 21 shall maintain the register in Form No. XII.(b)The
District level authorities or Divisional level authorities above the
recommending authorities recommending for educational assistance, shall
conduct bi-monthly inspection of the office of the recommending authorities
and scrutinise all the files regarding claims and send a report on such
inspections made to the Heads of the Departments concerned periodically.(c)The
State level authorities shall, at the time of their regular inspection or
review, also review the implementation of the Scheme and ensure its proper and
effective implementation.(3)Assistance relating to Health Department. - (a) In
respect of assistance for delivery or miscarriage of pregnancy or termination
of pregnancy, the Medical Officer of the concerned Block Primary Health Centre
shall maintain the register in Form No. XII.(b)The concerned Deputy Director
of Health Services shall conduct bimonthly inspection of the Primary Health
Centres under his control and scrutinise all the files where assistance have
been sanctioned and send a report on such inspections made to the Project
Director, Reproductive and Child Health Project, Chennai periodically.(c)The
Project Director, Reproductive and Child Health Project, Chennai, at the time
of inspection or review in the districts, shall also review the implementation
of the Scheme and ensure its proper and effective implementation.

### 28. Progress report.

(1)The progress report under the Scheme shall be sent to the Member-Secretary
by the Collectors and other Heads of Departments before the 7th of every
month. He, in turn, shall send the consolidated monthly progress report to the
Government before the 12th of every month.(2)The Chief Secretary may, around
the 15th of every month, review the progress of the implementation of the
Scheme with all the Secretaries concerned.(3)The Member-Secretary shall
convene the meeting of the Board every quarter or at any time it may require
for post review of the expenditure and review the progress made by the
District Collectors and other Heads of departments. The Member-Secretary shall
also place other items, if any, before the Board for taking a decision. He
shall send necessary report to the Government based on the decisions of the
Board. The Member-Secretary shall also issue necessary instructions to the
implementing officers based on the decisions of the Board or Government.

### 29. District Level Committee.

(1)In every district (except Chennai), a committee headed by the District
Collector comprising of other official members as detailed below shall be
formed:-

(1) | The Collector | Chairman  
---|---|---  
(2) | The District Revenue Officer/ Additional Collector | Member  
(3) | The Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency | Member  
(4) | The Joint Director, Collegiate Education | Member  
(5) | The Deputy Director of Health Services | Member  
(6) | The Principals of concerned Industrial Training institutes | Member  
(7) | The Chief Educational Officer | Member  
(8) | The District Educational Officers | Member  
(9) | The Special Deputy Collector (Social Security Scheme) | Member-Convener  
  
(2)The District Committee shall have its meeting once in a month and review
the progress for the effective implementation of the Scheme(3)The Special
Deputy Collector (Social Security Scheme) of the Collector-ate shall be the
convener of the Committee.(4)The Collector/ Chairman shall send the minutes of
the meeting of the Committee to the Member-Secretary after the conduct of the
meeting.

### 30. Disputes regarding application of the Scheme.

\- If any question arises whether the Scheme applies to any class of
agricultural labourers or farmers, the matter shall be referred to the Board
and the decision taken in this regard by the Board shall be final.

### 31. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If, in the opinion of the Board, any difficulty or doubt arises as to the
interpretation of any of the provisions of the Scheme or in the implementation
of the Scheme, the Board shall refer the matter to the Government and the
decision of the Government shall be final and binding.AppendixForm No. I(See
Clause 6(1) and (4))Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers (Social
Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Application for Registration

| Registration No. ........... |   
---|---|---  
| (to be filled in by office) |   
|  | {|  
Affix passport size photograph  
  
|-| (1)| Name of the applicant.:||-|| (a) whether he/ she is a landless
agricultural labourer/Farmer.||-|| (b) whether he/ she owns wet land upto 2.50
acre or dry landupto 5.00 acres.||-| (2)| Name of Father/ Husband.||-| (3)|
Date of birth (Enclose evidence to prove age) (Family Card/Medical
Certificate, etc.).| Day Month Year|-| (4)| Personal marks of
identification.||-|| (1)||-|| (2)||-| (5)| Marital Status (Whether married,
unmarried, Widow/ Widower).||-| (6)| Permanent address.||-| (7)| Present
address.||-| (8)| State whether contributing physical labour, in own land
oremployed as agricultural labourer in other land.||-| (9)| If contributing
physical labour in own land the extent of landto be specified (With extract of
China).||-| (10)| Nature of labour.||-| (11)| No. of years engaged in the
employment as on the date ofapplication.||}Signature or left hand
thumbimpression of the applicantCertificate of EmploymentCertified that the
particulars furnished by the applicant in the application for registration are
true to the best of my knowledge and belief.Signature and name of the Person/
Officer/ VillageAdministrative Officer issuing the certificate.1

### 1\. Strike-off whichever is not necessary.

Place :Date :Form No. II[See Clause 6(5)]Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers -
Farmers (Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Nomination FormRegistration
No. ............I hereby nominate the person/ persons below to receive the
claims due to me under Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers (Social
Security and Welfare) Scheme in the event of my death before any amount due to
me becomes payable:

Name and address of the nominee/ nominees | Relationship to the Registered Members | Age of the nominee | Amount of share to be paid to each nominee  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
Place : |  Signature or left hand thumbimpression of theRegistered Member  
---|---  
Date : |   
  
Certified that the above declaration has been signed/ thumb impression affixed
by Thiru/ Thirumathi ....................... as he/ she has read the entries
(or) after the entries have been read over to him/ her by me and understood by
him/ her.Signature and name of the Village Administrative Officer (with Office
Seal)RecommendedFirka Revenue Inspector(with Office Seal)

Place : | Accepted  
---|---  
Date : | Special Tahsildar (SSS)(with Office Seal)  
  
Form IV(See Clause 9)Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers (Social
Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Membership Register

SI. No. | Name and address of the Member | Ration Card No. | Date of application | Date of Registration | Registration No. | Due date for renewal of membership  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Date of renewal of membership | Period of delay, if any | Amount of late fee collected, if any | Receipt No. and date | Initials of the Special Tahsildar (SSS) | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. VTamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers (Social Security and
Welfare) Scheme, 2006Accident Intimation ReportToThe Special Tahsildar
(SSS),........................................................ToThe Inspector/
Sub-Inspector of
Police,........................................................

1. | (a) | Name and address of the registered member met with accident. | :  
---|---|---|---  
| (b) | Age. | :  
| (c) | Occupation | :  
2. | Date and time of accident | :  
3. | Place of accident | :  
| (a) | at the working place. | :  
| (b) | outside the work place. | :  
4. |  Whether the accident resulted in death/ loss of limbs/ loss ofeye sight/ partial injury | :  
5. | If died, the date and time of death | :  
6. | Name and address of the informer | :  
  
Signature.Form No. VI[See Clause 18(3)(b)]Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-
Farmers (Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Application for Grant of
Assistance for AccidentToThe Special Tahsildar
(SSS)........................................................

1. | Name of the registered member. |   
---|---|---  
| Address. | :  
| Age | :  
2. | Name and address of the claimant | :  
3. | Relationship to the injured/ deceased member. | :  
4. | Whether the member himself/ herself or his/ her nominee. | :  
5. | Date and time of accident. | :  
6. | Place of accident |   
| (a) at the work place, | :  
| (b) outside the work place. | :  
7. |  Whether the accident resulted in death/ loss of limbs/ loss ofeye sight/ partial injury? | :  
8. |  If died, the date and time of death (with documents specifiedin the scheme) and the original Identity Card of the registeredmembers. | :  
9. |  Whether accident relief if any received already from theGovernment or Government Organisation? | :  
| (a) If yes, details. | :  
10. |  Whether the doctor certificate/ FIR copy/ postmortem reportenclosed. | :  
  
Place: | Signature or left hand  
---|---  
Date: | Thumb Impression of  
| Registered Member/ Nominee.  
  
Form No. VII[See Clause 19(2)]Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers
(Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Application for Grant of Funeral
Expenses/ Natural Death Assistances)(*) (strike out whichever is not
applicable)ToThe Special Tahsildar
(SSS),........................................................

1. | Name of the Registered Member | :  
---|---|---  
2. | Address. | :  
3. | Age. | :  
4. | Nature of work. | :  
5. | (a) | Place of death. | :  
| (b) | Date of death. | :  
| (c) | Cause of death (Death Certificate should be enclose). | :  
6. | (a) | Place of death | :  
| (b) | Date of death | :  
| (c) | Cause of death (Death Certificate should be enclosed. | :  
7. | (a) | Name of the applicant. | :  
| (b) | Age of applicant. | :  
| (c) | Address of the applicant. | :  
| (d) |  Whether the applicant is nominee of the deceased registeredmember? | :  
| (e) |  Relationship of the applicant to the deceased registeredmember. | :  
8. |  Whether assistance if any already obtained fromthe Government or Government Organisation for the above purpose? | :  
| (a) | If yes, detail. | :  
  
Signature of the applicant or ThumbImpression of Left HandPlace :Date :Form
No. VIII[See Clause 21(2)]Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers (Social
Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Application for Educational Assistance

1. | Name of the Registered Member. |   
---|---|---  
2. | Registration No. (Xerox copy of Identity card to be enclosed). |   
3. | (a) Permanent Address. |   
| (b) Present Address |   
4. | Details of sons or daughters of the registered member. |   
| {|  
Serial Number | Name | Age  
  
|-| 5.| Details of the dependent son or daughter etc. for whomeducational
assistance is sough.||-|

SI. No. | Name | Date of birth | Examine-passed/ Course of study | Name and address of the Institution | Whether Hosteller or day scholar  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
| (Attested Xerox copy of the mark sheet shall be enclosed)  
  
|-| 6.| (a) Whether assistance under this scheme for the studentavailed
already?||-|| (b) If so, details.||-| 7.| (a) Whether educational assistance
already received or beingreceived from Government or Government
Organisations?||-|| (b) If so, details.||}Signature/ LTI of theRegistered
Member.CertificateI hereby certify that the particulars in SI. No. 1-4
furnished above are correct.

Place : |  Signature of theVillage AdministrativeOfficer(Name with Office Seal)  
---|---  
Date : |   
  
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished in SI. No. 5 to 7 are correct.

Place :Date : |  Headmaster/ Principal/ Dean of theconcernedEducational Institution  
---|---  
  
Form No. IX[See Clause 22(3)]Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers
(Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Application for the Grant of
Marriage Assistance

1. | Name of the registered member | :  
---|---|---  
2. | Registration No. | :  
| (Xerox copy of identity card to be enclosed) |   
3. | (a) Permanent Address, |   
| (b) Present Address. |   
4. |  (a) Particulars of the sons or daughters of the registeredmember.  
| {|  
Serial No. | Name | Age | Marital status  
|  |  |   
  
|-|| (b) Name of the member or the son or daughter of theregistered member for
whose marriage the assistance is sought.|-|| (c) Furnish the details of date
and place of marriage andname: of couples.|-|| (d) Has marriage assistance
been availed for any son ordaughter' If so, furnish details.|-| 5.| Has the
couple attained the age prescribed by Law formarriage: (Proof of age to be
produced).|-| 6.| (a) Whether marriage assistance already received from
theGovernment or Government Organisation?|-|| (b) If so, details.|}Signature/
LTI of the Registered MemberCertificateI, ................ hereby certify that
the marriage of Selvan/ Selvi ................ Member/ Son/ Daughter of with
Selvan/ Selvi Son/ daughter of ......................................... taken
place on at ....Place:Date:Signature of theVillage Administrative
Officer.(with office seal)Form No. X[See Clause 23(4)]Tamil Nadu Agricultural
Labourers - Farmers (Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Application for
the Grant of Assistance for Delivery or Miscarriage of Pregnancy or
Termination of Pregnancy by a Registered Female Member

1. | Name of the registered Female Member :  
---|---  
2. | Registration Number:  
| (Xerox copy of Identity Card to be enclosed).  
3. | (a) Permanent Address :  
| (b) Present Address :  
4. |  Particulars of the sons or daughters of the registered femalemember :  
| {|  
SI. No. | Name | Sex | Age | Date of birth  
|  |  |  |   
  
|-| 5.| In case of pregnancy, a certificate from the competentregistered
Medical Practitioner, for the month of pregnancy shallbe enclosed :|-| 6.| In
case of miscarriage of pregnancy ortermination of pregnancy, a certificate
from the competentregistered medical practitioner, regarding the miscarriage
ortermination of pregnancy shall be enclosed :|-| 7.| Was this assistance been
availed previously? If so, furnishdetails :|-| 8.| (a) Whether any assistance
from the Government or Governmentorganization had already been availed?|-||
(b) If so, furnish details.|}Signature/ LTI of the Registered Female
MemberCertificateI hereby certify that the above particulars are correct.Place
:Date :Signature of Village Administrative Officer(Name with Seal)Verification
Officer.CertificateI hereby certify that the above particulars are correct and
recommend for the sanction of assistance for the delivery of child/
miscarriage of pregnancy/ termination of pregnancy* under the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Labourers-Farmers (Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006.

Place : | Village Health Nurse.  
---|---  
Date : | Block Primary Health Centre.  
  
* Strike out whichever is not applicable.ToThe Medical Officer,Block Primary Health Centre,......................Form No. XI[See Clause 24(4)]Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers (Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Application for the Grant of Old Age Pension by a Registered Agricultural Labourer

1. | Name of the registered member.  
---|---  
2. | Male or Female.  
3. | Father's/ Husband's Name.  
4. | Family Identity Card No. (xerox copy to be enclosed).  
5. |  Age, on the date of application (whether proof of ageenclosed. If so whether original or copy?).  
6. | Identification marks.  
7. | Details of applicant's family members.  
| {|  
SI. No. | Name | Relationship | Age | Occupation | Monthly income (in rupees)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
|-| 8.| Whether the applicant is physically handicapped/ incapable ofdoing
agricultural work/ incapacitated in any way? If so, furnishdetails.|-| 9.|
Whether the applicant is a destitute?|-| 10.| Certificate|-|| (1)| I do not
have any income or any sources of income for living.|-|| (2)| I do not get
pension from any Government or Government relatedorganisations.|-|| (3)| I am
living in the above address for the past years.|-|| (4)| The particulars
furnished above are true to the best of myknowledge.|}

Place : | Signature/ LTI of the applicant.  
---|---  
Date : |   
  
RecommendationVillage Administrative Officer(Signature with Seal)Form No.
XII[See clause 27(l)(a), (2)(a) and (3)(a)]Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers -
Farmers (Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006Register for Assistance
under the Scheme(To be maintained separately for each category of assistance)

Name of Assistance : .................................... |  Name of village :....................................  
---|---  
Name of Taluk : ............................................ |   
Name of District : ......................................... |   
  
SI. No. | Name and address of the applicant | Registration No. of member | Relationship to the registered member | Date of receipt of application |  Date of report submitted after completion ofenquiry | Amount of assistance | Cheque No. and Date issued to the applicant | Signature of the sanctioning authority | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. XIII(See Clause 14)Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers
(Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006ReceiptDate : ..........Received
from Thiru/ Tmt ................................................ Village,
.......... Taluk District, a sum of Rs. ........................ (Rupees
................................................) towards late fee for the
membership bearing Registration No. .................Village Administrative
Officer............................. Village................................
Taluk.Form No. XIV(See Clause 6(7))Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers - Farmers
(Social Security and Welfare) Scheme, 2006ReceiptDate : ..........Received
from Thiru/ Tmt. ....................................... Village, ...........
Taluk, District) a sum of Rs. ................. (Rupees ................. )
towards the issue of duplicate Identity Card for the member bearing the
Registration No. ..............Village Administrative
Officer............................. Village................................
Taluk.NotificationEstablishment of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-
Farmers Welfare BoardPublished in Part II-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 18th January 2007. - In exercise
of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Labourers-
Farmers (Social Security and Welfare) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 2006),
the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby establishes a Board to be known as the Tamil
Nadu Agricultural Labourers-Farmers Welfare Board to provide Social Security
and Welfare Measures for the Agricultural Labouers-Farmers and Registered
Tenants and nominates the following persons as the members of the said Board,
namely:-I. Members representing the Government :

1. | Hon'ble Miners (Revenue and Law) | Chairman  
---|---|---  
2. | Secretary, Revenue Department | Member  
3. | Secretary, Finance Department | Member  
4. | Secretary Agriculture Department | Member  
5. |  Special Commissioner and Commissioner for RevenueAdministration | Member  
6. |  Chairman and Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Civil SuppliesCorporation | Member  
7. | Commissioner, Sugar Department | Member  
8. | Director-Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business | Member  
9. | Commissioner of Land Reforms | Member-Secretary  
  
Special invites from Government :

### 1\. Secretary, School Education Department

### 2\. Secretary, Higher Education Department

### 3\. Secretary, Labour and Employment Department

### 4\. Secretary, Law Department

### 5\. Secretary, Animal Husbandry, Milk Development and Fisheries
Department.

### 6\. Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department and respective Head of
the Departments, if necessary.

II. Members representing agricultural labourers, farmers and employers:

### 1\. Thiru K. P. Ramalingam, Ex-Parliament Member, "Thai" Illam, Rasipuram,
Namakkal - 637 408.

### 2\. Thiru Poodalur Pon Kaliyamoorhty, 4th Street, Periyar Nagar, Medical
College Road, Thanjavur - 7.

### 3\. Thiru Keezhanur Rajendran, S/ o. Thiru K. R. Elumalai, No. 30, Sivan
Koil Street, Keezhanur Village, Thiruvallur Taluk and District.

### 4\. Thiru L. K. Sadagopan, President, Pattali Vivasayigal Sangam, Mel
Nemili, Sattampatti Post, Chengi Taluk, Villpuram District.

### 5\. Thiru K. Balakrishnan, State Executive Committee Member, Communist
Party of India (Marxist), General Secretary, Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam, 27,
Vaithiyaraman Street, T. Nagar, Chennai-600 017.

### 6\. Thiru V. Duraimanickam, State Secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal
Sangam, Pappanadu Post, Orathanadu Taluk, Thanjavu. - 6143 626.

### 7\. Thiru K. Chellamuthu, President, Uzhavar Ulaipalar Party, Kappalpatti
Post, Ottanchataram, Dindigul District.

### 8\. Thiru Pon Kumar, President, Vivasayigal Labour Party, No. 1, Jayam-mal
Road, Teynampet, Chennai - 600 018.

