## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Village Servant's Family Benefit Fund Scheme Rules, 1984

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Village Servant's Family Benefit Fund Scheme Rules, 1984

## Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-VILLAGE-SERVANT-S-FAMILY-BENEFIT-FUND-SCHEME-RULES-1984
of 1984

  * Published on 13 February 1984 
  * Commenced on 13 February 1984 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 February 1984.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Village Servant's Family Benefit Fund Scheme Rules,
1984Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 175, Revenue, dated 13th
February 1984

### 1.

These rules shall be called the Tamil Nadu Village Servant's Family Benefit
Fund Scheme Rules, 1984.

### 2.

These rules shall come into force at once, in supersession of the Tamil Nadu
Family Benefit Fund Rules for the Tamil Nadu Village Officers and Village
Servants annexed to G.O. Ms No. 967, Revenue, dated the 25th April 1975.

### 3.

These rules shall apply to all Village Servants (Grama Kavalars, Grama
Paniyalars and Pasana Kavalars) to whom the Tamil Nadu Village Servants
Service Rules, 1984 apply. The contribution as well as the eligibility for
benefits under the scheme shall cease in all cases, on the individual
attaining sixty years of age.These rules shall also apply to temporary Village
Servants appointed against temporary vacancies for short periods or in leave
vacancies. The subscription recovered from them shall not be repaid to them
when they resign or quit office or at the time of their termination from
service.

### 4.

A nominal monthly deduction of Re. 1 (Rupee one only) shall be made from the
honorarium of all Village Servants and the deduction shall also continue till
the Village Servants attain the age of sixty. In respect of future entrants,
contribution shall commence from the beginning of the calendar month following
the date of entry in service and shall continue till the end of the month,
preceding the date of his/ her attaining the age of sixty. The deduction shall
be made from the monthly pay bills and the amounts should be credited into the
State Funds under the head of account "088. Social Security Welfare-A Social
Security Welfare-AE. Other Receipts-09. Contribution under Family Benefit Fund
Scheme" (D.P. Code 088A AEAA 0903). No Schedules need be attached to the pay
bills for the deduction made nor any separate accounts be maintained therefor.

### 5.

(i)In case a Village Servant dies while in service, a lump sum amount of Rs.
10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) shall be paid to the nominee, who shall be
his wife/ her husband/ minor child/ children/ mother/ father (in that order)
or in the absence of a nominee, to the legal heir of the deceased
employee;(ii)In the case of a male employee, the wife or wives and children of
the employee and the widow or widows and children of deceased sons of the
employee:Provided that if an employee proves that his wife has been judicially
separated from him or has ceased under the customary law of the community to
which she belongs to be entitled to maintenance, she shall henceforth, be
deemed to be no longer a member of the employee's family in matters to which
Family Benefit Fund Rules relate, unless the employee subsequently indicates
by express notice in writing that she shall continue to be so regarded;
and(iii)In the case of female employee, the husband and children of an
employee and the widow or widows and children of deceased son of an
employee:Provided that if an employee expresses her desire to exclude her
husband from her family, the husband shall, henceforth, be deemed to be no
longer a member of the employee's family in matters to which Family Benefit
Fund Rules relate, unless the employee subsequently cancels formally in
writing her notice excluding him.Explanation I. - "Children" means legitimate
and step-children.Explanation II. - An adopted child shall be considered to be
a child if the sanctioning authority under the rules, is satisfied that under
the personal law of the employee, adoption is legally recognised as conferring
the status of a natural child, but in this case only.Explanation III. - A
child of one person given in adoption to another shall not be considered to be
the child of the former if the sanctioning authority is satisfied that under
the personal law of the persons concerned such adoption is legally recognised
and in that case only.Explanation IV. - An unmarried Village Servant both male
and female can nominate any person within the members of the family. Such
members will include (i) father (ii) mother (iii) brothers below the age of 18
years including step brothers (iv) unmarried sisters, widowed sisters
including step sisters. If such nomination is given in favour of more than one
person, the Village Servant concerned should specify the amount of sum payable
to each nominee. The above nomination will stand as cancelled immediately
after the marriage of the Village Servant and a fresh nomination should be
made in favour of his wife/ her husband. If the Village Servant dies before
filling such nomination, the lump-sum is payable only to the wife/ husband of
the deceased and not with reference to the previous nomination.

### 6.

(i)The nomination shall be made strictly in the order of members indicated in
paragraph 5 above;(ii)Major sons (who were not dependent on the deceased for
support); Major brothers; Married daughters/ sisters and other relative shall
not be eligible for the lumpsum grant under the scheme;(iii)Employees who have
no family shall be exempted from joining the Family Benefit Fund Scheme, as is
allowed in the case of Fathers/ Nuns in the Educational Institutions.(iv)If
none of the nominee/ persons indicated in paragraph 5 above are alive, then,
the lumpsum grant under the scheme shall lapse to the Government; and(v)In
case of no nomination, the lumpsum grant shall be paid to the eligible members
in equal shares. The nomination shall be in the Form A appended. This
nomination shall be counter-signed by the Tahsildar and pasted in the service
extract of the Village Servant. No Village Servant shall be paid his/ her
first full month's pay after joining the services unless he/ she filed his/
her nomination.

### 7. Suicide and murder.

\- In respect of suicide and murder cases, specific sanction of Government for
payment of lumpsum amount should be obtained by the Head of the Department,
before according necessary sanction.

### 8. Procedure for drawal and disbursement.

\- The procedure for drawal and disbursement of the lumpsum amount in respect
of Government Servants shall be followed, in respect of Village Servants also.

### 9. Administration and audit.

\- The Director of Treasuries and Accounts shall administer this scheme.

### 10. Head of Account.

\- The following shall be the head of accounts for the transaction relating to
this fund:-Receipts

### 088. Social Security and Welfare. - A. Social Security and Welfare - AE.
Other Receipts - 09. Contribution under Family Benefit Fund Scheme - (D.P.
Code 088A AEAA 0903)

Payments

### 288. Social Security and Welfare-E. Other Social Security and Welfare
Programme - AE. other Programmes-AY Tamil Nadu Family Benefit Fund Scheme -
Ex-gratia payment to the family of the deceased Government employees (DP Code
No. 288E AEAY 0000).

### 11. Sanctioning authority.

\- The Revenue Divisional Officer/ Sub-Collector shall be the sanctioning
authority for payment of lump sum benefit in the event of death of the Village
Servant while in service.

### 12.

Copies of sanction orders shall be communicated to the Director of Treasuries
and Accounts, [Chennai] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of1996).].

### 13.

The sanction order shall be in Form B appended.Form A[See Rule 6(v)]Nomination
for Tamil Nadu Village Servants Family Benefit Fund Scheme

Name and address | Relationship with  
---|---  
Age of Nominee * | the Village Servant.  
Dated this day of ...............  
Signature of the Village Servant.  
  
Witness to signature(1).......(2).......Certified that the above nomination is
in order with reference to the rules mentioned in paragraph 5 of the Tamil
Nadu Village Servants Family Benefits Fund Scheme Rules, 1984.Signature of the
counter-signing officer.Form B[See Rule 13]Standardised Form for
SanctionProceedings of the...........Name:No. .......... Dated:Subject: Family
Benefit Fund Scheme - Payment of lump sum amountOrderedReference: G.O. Ms. No.
.......................dated ........................OrderUnder the powers
vested in rule 11 of the Tamil Nadu Village Servants Family Benefit Fund
Scheme Rules sanction is hereby accorded for the payment of lump sum amount of
Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) to Thiru/ Thirumathi/ Selvi .........
wife/ son/ daughter/ father/ mother, legal heir of Thiru/ Thirumathi/ Selvi
Village Servant of taluk............... district who expired on while in
service.

### 2\. Thiru/ Thirumathi/ Selvi was admitted in the Scheme with effect from
and has been contributing Re. 1 every month.

### 3\. The amount is debatable under "288. Social Security and Welfare - E.
Other Social Security and Welfare Programme-AE. Other programmes - AY. Tamil
Nadu Family Benefit Fund Scheme - Ex gratia payment to the family of the
deceased Government employees (DP Code No. 288E AEA Y (000)".

Signature.Copy to: The Director of Treasuries and Accounts, [Chennai]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]-35.Treasury Officer/ Sub-Treasury Officer.

