## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Horse Race (Abolition Of Turf Agencies) Act, 1979

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Horse Race (Abolition Of Turf Agencies) Act, 1979

## Act 55 of 1979

  * Published in Gazette 55 on 3 December 1979 
  * Assented to on 3 December 1979 
  * Commenced on 3 December 1979 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 December 1979.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Horse Race (Abolition Of Turf Agencies) Act, 1979Act No. 55 of
1979[3rd December, 1979]An Act to provide for the abolition of the system of
turf agencies in respect of any horse race in the State of Tamil Nadu.BE it
enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirtieth Year of
the Republic of India, as follows:-

### 1. Short title and Commencement.—

This Act may be called The Tamil Nadu Horse Race (Abolition Of Turf Agencies)
Act, 1979.It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 19th October,
1979.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)'bet' includes
wager;(b)'Government' means the State Government;(c)'horse' means a male horse
and includes mare, gelding, filly, pony or any other horse by whatever name
called;(d)'horse-race' means any race, in which any horse runs or is made to
run in competition with any other horse,--(i)for any prize of whatever nature
or kind, or(ii)for any bet made or to be made, or(iii)for both such prize and
bet,In respect of any such horse, or the rider thereof;(e)'turf agency' means
any agency which carries on the business of,--(i)receiving bets from the
public in general, or(ii)purchasing tickets on behalf of punters,
or(iii)making bets on behalf of punters,for commission or remuneration in
respect of any horse run in a horse-race or in respect of any rider of such
horse;(f)'turf agent' includes any person who, by way of
business.,--(i)receives bets from the public in general, or(ii)purchases
tickets on behalf of punters, or(iii)makes bets on behalf of punters,for
commission or remuneration in respect of any horse run in a horse-race or in
respect of any rider of such horse.

### 3. Abolition of the system of turf agencies.—

The system of carrying on the business of a turf agency or a turf agent in
respect of any horse-race is hereby abolished.

### 4. Prohibition of the system of turf agencies.—

No person shall carry on the business of a turf agency or a turf agent in
respect of any horse-race.

### 5. Penalty.—

Any person who contravenes or attempts to contravene or abets the
contravention of the provisions of Section 4 or any Rules made under this Act
shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a period which may extend
to three years and shall also be liable to fine.

### 6. Offence by Companies.—

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.— For the purposes of
this Section,—

### 7. Indemnity.—

(1)No suit or other proceeding shall lie against the Government for any act
done or purporting to be done under this Act or any Rule made thereunder.(2)No
suit, prosecution or other proceeding shall lie against any authority or
officer, or servant of the Government of any act done or purporting to be done
in good faith under this Act or any Rule made thereunder.

### 8. Power to make Rules.—

(1)The Government may make Rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)All
Rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come in to force on a particular day
shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.(3)Every Rule
made under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is made, be placed on
the table of both Houses of the Legislature and if, before the expiry of the
session in which it is so placed or the next session, both Houses agree in
making any modification in any such Rule or both Houses agree that the Rule
should not be made, the Rule shall thereafter have effect a only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that Rule.

### 9. Act to override other laws, decree, etc.,—

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent there with contained in any other law for the time being in
force, or any custom, usage or decree or order of a court or other authority.

### 10. Repeal and Saving.—

(1)The Tamil Nadu Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Ordinance 1979
(Tamil Nadu Ordinance 20 of 1979) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such
repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance including
any Rules made shall in so far as they are not inconsistent with this Act, be
deemed to have been done or taken under this Act and shall continue in force
accordingly, unless and until superseded by anything done or any action taken
under this Act.

