## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water-Cess Act, 1963

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water-Cess Act, 1963

## Act 8 of 1963

  * Published on 4 May 1963 
  * Commenced on 4 May 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 May 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water-Cess Act, 1963Tamil
Nadu Act 8 of 1963Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Additional
Assessment and Additional Water-Cess Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1963). -
The existing rates of land revenue assessment which were settled years ago are
already outmoded and bear little relation to the productivity of the land and
the price which the landowners are getting for their produce. The value of the
land lias also increased and the land revenue assessment now payable is very
low when compared with the market value of the land and the returns which
accrue to the land owners therefrom. It has, therefore, been decided to
increase die existing rates of wet assessment by 60 per cent for wet lands
under first and second class sources of irrigation and by 40 per cent for die
decided to increase the water-cess levied under die Madras Irrigation Cess
Act, 1865 (Madras Act VII of 1865) by 100 per cent, for lands under first and
second class sources of irrigation and by 50 per cent for lands under other
sources or irrigation.2\. In recent years under the Five-Years Plans, a few
irrigation projects have been implemented. The charges for supply of water for
the lands included in die ayacuts of these irrigation projects have been fixed
only comparatively recently and are generally higher than those in force in
respect of old projects. It is also desirable in die public interest to allow
irrigation potential under die new projects to be fully developed before any
enhancement of the existing level of water rates under these projects is
considered. Again, the Madras Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution)
Act, 1955 (Madras Act III of 1955), provides for the levy of a betterment
contribution from die landholder of any land which, in the opinion of the
Government, is benefited by the construction, expansion or alternation by die
Government of any irrigation or drainage work. The betterment contribution is
leviable only in respect of such works undertaken on or after the 1st January
1947. Hence, the lands benefited by the new irrigation projects are also
subject to die levy under that Act. For these reasons the Government have
decided to exclude from the scope of die Bill die projects specified in
Schedule I to the Bill.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
proposals.Published in Part IV-Section 3 of the Port. St. George Gazette,
dated the 23rd January 1963.4\. The provisions of the Bill are explained in
the Notes on Clauses.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Additional
Assessment and Additional Water-Cess (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 40
of 2002). - At present, additional water-cess is levied on the land under
first or second class source of irrigation on the basis of water-cess. The
Government have now decided to revise the additional water-cess on lands under
first or second class source of irrigation on the basis of crops per acre (per
hectare) for meeting the operation and maintenance cost of distribution and
accordingly decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and
Additional Water-Cess Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1963).2\. This Bill seeks
to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 31st October
2002.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and
Additional Water-Cess (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2003). - No
additional assessment or additional water-cess shall be payable under the
Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water-Cess Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 8 of 1963) in respect of any land irrigated by any source from any of
the projects mentioned in Schedule I to the said Act. The Government have
decided to levy additional water-cess in respect of lands irrigated from any
of the projects mentioned in the said Schedule I. Accordingly, a notification
under sub-section (1) of section 13, omitting the projects mentioned in the
said Schedule 1, has been issued by the Government. As per sub-section (2) of
the said section 13, a Bill has to be introduced and passed in the Legislative
Assembly to give effect to the omissions made in the said Schedule I by the
notification.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published
in part IV-section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 31st October 2002.Received the assent of the President on the 4th May 1963
and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, on the 9th
May 1963.An Act to provide for the levy of [additional assessment and
additional water-cess] [Substituted by sections 2 and 3 of the Tamil Nadu Act
39 of 1981, which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st July 1976 for
'additional assessment, additional water-cess, special assessment and special
water-cess' which in turn were earlier Substituted for 'additional assessment
and additional water-cess' by sections 2 and 3 of the Tamil Nadu Additional
Assessment and Additional Water-cess (Amendment Act), 1976 (President's Act 4
of 1976), which came into force on the 1st July 1976.] on certain lands in the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted far the expression 'State of Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Be it enacted by the
Legislature of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] in the Fourteenth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] [Additional Assessment and
Additional Water-Cess] [Substituted by sections 2 and 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Additional Assessment, Additional Water-cess, Special Assessment and Special
Water-Cess (Amendment) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981), which was deemed
to have come into force on the 1st July 1976 for 'additional assessment,
additional water-cess, special assessment and special water-cess' which in
turn were earlier Substituted for 'additional assessment and additional water-
cess' by sections 2 and 3 of the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and
Additional Water-cess (Amendment) Act, 1976 (President's Act 4 of 1976), which
came into force on the 1st July 1976.] Act, 1963.(2)It shall be deemed to have
come into force on the 1st day of July 1962.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"additional
assessment" means the additional assessment levied under section 3 or
4;(2)"additional water-cess" means the additional water-cess levied under
subsection (1) of section 5;[x x x] [[The following clause which was inserted
by section 4(i) of the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water-
Cess (Amendment) Act, 1976 (President's Act 4 of 1976), which came into force
on the 1st July 2 976 was omitted by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Additional
Assessment, Additional Water cess, Special Assessment and Special Water-cess
(Amendment) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981), which was deemed to have
come into force on the 1st July 1976: -(2-A) 'dufussal crop' means any crop
which requires water for more than six months in a fasli year:]][(2-A) "day
crop" means a crop which is not a wet crop:] [Clause 2-A was inserted by the
Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water-Cess (Amendment) Act,
2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 2002).]Provided that "Mundla" paddy shall be
regarded as a dry crop;(3)"fasli year" means the year commencing on the 1st
day of July;(4)"first class source of irrigation", "second class source of
irrigation", "third class source of irrigation", "fourth class source of
irrigation" or "fifth class source of irrigation" means any source of
irrigation registered as a first class source of irrigation, second class
source of irrigation, third class source of irrigation, fourth class source of
irrigation or fifth class source of irrigation, as the ease may be, in the
revenue accounts of the Government in accordance with a settlement
notification duly published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette.] and for the time being in force;(5)"Government"
means the State Government';(6)"inam land" shall have the meaning assigned to
it in clause (d) of section 2 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inams (Assessment) Act,
1956 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XL of 1956);(7)"landholder" means any holder of
land under ryotwari settlement and includes,-(i)any inamdar liable to pay full
assessment under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inams (Assessment) Act, 1956 ([Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act XL of 1956); and(ii)[ any person liable to pay land revenue
under- [Substituted and was deemed always to have been substituted for the
following sub-clause by set lion 2(i)of the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment
and Additional Water-cess (Amendment) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1972):-(ii) any person liable to pay land revenue under section 23 of the
Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotivari) Act, 1948 (Tamil
Nadu Act XXVI of 1948);'](a)section 23 of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Tamil Nadu Act XXVI of 1948);
or(b)section 21 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963); or(c)section 15 of the Tamil
Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 27 of 1963); or(d)section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963);
or(e)section 12 of the Kanyakumari Sreepandaravaka Lands (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1964); or(f)section
13 of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act,
1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969);] [or] [Inserted by section 4(ii)(A) of the
Tamil Nadu Additional/ Assessment and Additional Water-cess (Amendment) Act,
1976 (President's Act 4 of 1976), which was deemed to have come into force on
the 11th July 1973.](g)[ section 14 of the Kanyakumari Sreepadam Lands
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of
1973);] [Inserted by section 4(ii)(B) of the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment
and Additional Water-cess (Amendment) Act, 1976 (President's Act 4 of 1976),
which was deemed to have come into force on the 11th July 1973.](8)"land
revenue" means-(i)in the case of any land in respect of which a ryotwari
settlement is in force, the ryotwari assessment payable;(ii)in the case, of
any inam land on which full assessment of revenue has been levied under the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inams (Assessment) Act, 1956 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act XL of 1956), such assessment;(iii)[ in the case of any land in respect of
which a ryotwari settlement effected- [Substituted by section 2(ii) of the
Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water-Cess (Amendment) Act,
1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1972).](a)in pursuance of section 22 of the Tamil
Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Tamil Nadu
Act XXVI of 1948), has not been brought into force, the land revenue payable
under section 23 of that Act;(b)in pursuance of section 20 of the Tamil Nadu
Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu
Act 26 of 1963), has not been brought into force, the land revenue payable
under section 21 of that Act;(c)in pursuance of section 14 of the Tamil Nadu
Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act
27 of 1963), has not been brought into force, the land revenue payable under
section 15 of that Act;(d)in pursuance of section 16 or section 16-A of the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963), has not been brought into force, the land revenue
payable under section 12 of that Act pending such ryotwari settlement;(e)in
pursuance of section 11 of the Kanyakumari Sreepandaravaka Lands (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1964), read with
the Tamil Nadu (Transferred Territory) Ryotwari Settlement Act, 1964 (Tamil
Nadu Act 30 of 1964), has not been brought into force, the land revenue
payable under sub-section (2) of section 12 of the former Act pending such
ryotwari settlement;(f)in pursuance of section 20 of the Gudalur Janmam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24
of 1969) has not been brought into force, the land revenue payable under
section 13 of that Act pending such ryotwari settlement;](g)[ in pursuance of
section 18 of the Kanyakumari Sreepadam Lands (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1973), read with the Tamil Nadu
(Transferred Territory) Ryotwari Settlement Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1964), has not been brought into force the land revenue payable under sub-
section (2) of section 14 of the former Act pending such ryotwari settlement;]
[Inserted by President's Act 4 of 1976, w.e.f. 11.7.1973.](9)"settlement
notification" includes a re-settlement notification;[x x x] [Clause (9A)
omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981.](10)"water-cess" means the water-cess
levied under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Irrigation Cess Act, 1865 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act VII of 1865);[(10-A) "wet crop" includes paddy, sugar-can, betel,
plantain, turmeric, elephant yam, areca, limes, oranges, pomegranates and any
other cop which is systematically irrigated;] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act
40 of 2002.](11)"wet land", "single-crop wet land", "compounded double-crop
wet land" or "double-crop wet-land" means the land registered in the revenue
accounts of the Government as wet, single-crop wet, compounded double-crop wet
or double-crop wet, as the case may be.[Explanation. [Added by the Tamil Nadu
Act 33 of 1972.] \- For the purposes of this clause, assessed waste wet land
shall be treated as single-crop wet land or as double-crop wet land with
reference to the classification of such assessed waste wet land in the revenue
accounts of the Government.]

### 3. Levy and collection of additional assessment on wet land under first or
second class source of irrigation.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 6, in respect of every wet land under
first or second class source of irrigation, there shall be levied and
collected by the Government from the landholder for every fasli year, an
additional assessment at the rate of forty-five per centum of the land revenue
payable for the fasli year for that land:Provided that the additional
assessment under this section together with the land revenue payable
shall,-(i)in respect of any single-crop wet land, in no case exceed eighteen
rupees per acre per fasli year; and(ii)in respect of any compounded double-
crop wet and or double-crop wet land, in no case exceed twenty-seven rupees
per acre per fasli year.

### 4. Levy and collection of additional assessment on wet land under third,
fourth or fifth class source of irrigation.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 6, in respect of every wet land under
third, fourth or fifth class source of irrigation, there shall be levied and
collected by the Government from the landholder for every fasli year, an
additional assessment at the rate of thirty per centum of the land revenue
payable for that fasli year for that land:Provided that the additional
assessment under this section, together with the land revenue payable
shall,-(i)in respect of any single-crop wet land, in no case exceed twelve
rupees per acre per fasli year; and(ii)in respect of any compounded double-
crop wet land or double-crop wet land, in no case exceed seventeen rupees per
acre per fasli year.

### 5. Levy and collection of additional water-cess.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, gs amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amended) Order, 1969.] Irrigation Cess
Act, 1865 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amend.) Order, 1969.] Act VII of 1865) but subject to the provisions of
section 6, there shall be levied and collected by the Government for every
'fasli year, an additional water-cess at the following rates from every person
liable to pay, water-cess in respect of any land [including any poramboke
land, assessed waste land (dry or manavari) or unassessed waste land] [These
brackets and words were inserted by section 3(i) of the Tamil Nadu Additional
Assessment and Additional Water-cess (Second Amendment) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu
Act 33 of 1972).]:-

(i) [ [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 2002.] | Land under first or second class source of irrigation --- |   
---|---|---  
| (a) Wet Crop |  Rupees seventy per acre (Rupees one hundred and seventy-fiveper hectare);  
| (b) dry Crop |  Rupees sixty per acre (Rupees one hundred and fifty perhectare);  
(ii) | Land under third, fourth or Fifth class sources of irrigation | Thirty-seven and a half per centum of the water-cess:]  
  
[x x x] [Provisos were omitted by the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and
Additional Water-Cess (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of
2002).](2)The authority or officer competent to levy, and the procedure to be
followed (including appeal and revision) for the levy and collection of, the
additional water-cess shall be the same as the authority or officer competent
to levy, and the procedure specified for the levy and collection of the water-
cess under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Irrigation Cess Act, 1865 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu [Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act VII of 1865) and the rules made thereunder.

### 6. Landholder to pay only additional assessment or additional water-cess
in certain cases.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 3 to 5, where in respect of
the same land, both the additional assessment and the additional water-cess
are leviable under section 3 or 4 and 5, the landholder concerned shall be
liable to pay in respect of that land only the amount of additional assessment
or the amount of additional water-cess, whichever amount is higher.

### 7. Assessing authority for additional assessment.

(1)Any officer of the Revenue Department not lower in rank than a Deputy
Tahsildar and having jurisdiction may, after following such procedure as maybe
prescribed, assess the additional assessment under this Act. Such assessment
shall, subject to the provisions of sections 8 and 9, be final and shall
remain in force so long as the land revenue for the land remains the
same.(2)Any officer referred to in sub-section (1) may re-assess the
additional assessment payable under this Act every time the land revenue for
the land is revised. The provisions of sub-section (1) and other provisions of
this Act shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to such re-assessment as
they apply in relation to the assessment of the additional assessment under
sub-section (1).

### 8. Appeal against order of assessment under section 7.

(1)Any person objecting to the amount of additional assessment assessed under
sub-section (1) of section 7, or denying his liability to be assessed to
additional assessment under this Act, may appeal against the
assessment-(i)where the assessment has been made by the Deputy Tahsildar in-
charge of a sub-taluk or the Tahsildar in-charge of a taluk or range, to the
Revenue Divisional Officer of the Division concerned;(ii)where the assessment
has been made by the Revenue Divisional Officer of a division, to the
Collector of the district concerned;(iii)where the assessment has been made by
the Collector of a district, to the [Board of Revenue] [By virtue of section
10(1) of the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act
36 of 1980), any reference to the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to be a
reference to the State Government.].(2)The appeal shall be presented within a
period of sixty days from the date of the service of the order of assessment
or within such further time not exceeding ninety days as the appellate officer
or authority referred to in sub-section (1) may, in his or its discretion,
allow.(3)An appeal under this section shall be heard in such manner as may be
prescribed. In disposing of an appeal, the appellate officer or authority
may-(i)confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment, or(ii)set aside the
assessment and direct the assessment to be made after such further inquiry as
may be directed:Provided that no enhancement of assessment shall be made under
this section unless the appellant has been given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard against such enhancement.(4)The appellate officer or authority
may, at the conclusion of the appeal, communicate the orders passed in the
appeal to the assessee and to the officer who made the assessment.(5)Any order
passed in the appeal shall, subject to the provisions of section 9, be final.

### 9. Revision by the [Board of Revenue.] [By virtue of section 10(1) of the
Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980),
any reference to the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to be a reference to the
State Government.]

\- The [Board of Revenue] [By virtue of section 10(1) of the Tamil Nadu Board
of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamd Nadu Act 36 of 1980), any reference to
the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to be a reference to the State
Government.] may call for and examine the record of any officer or authority
in respect of any proceeding under section 11, or in respect of any proceeding
relating to additional assessment under this Act not being a proceeding in
respect of which an appeal lies to the [Board of Revenue] [By virtue of
section 10(1) of the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil
Nadu Act 36 of 1980), any reference to the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to
be a reference to the State Government.], to satisfy itself as to the
regularity of such proceeding or the correctness, legality or propriety of any
decision or order passed thereon; and if, in any case, it appears to the
[Board of Revenue] [By virtue of section 10(1) of the Tamil Nadu Board of
Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980), any reference to the
Board of Revenue shall be deemed to be a reference to the State Government.]
that any such proceeding, decision or order should be modified, annulled,
reversed or remitted for re-consideration, it may pass orders
accordingly:Provided that the [Board of Revenue] [By virtue of section 10(1)
of the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1980), any reference to the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to be a reference
to the State Government.] shall not pass any order prejudicial to any party
unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 10. Additional assessment recovered as land revenue.

(1)The additional assessment payable under this Act shall be deemed to be
public revenue due on the land in respect of which a persons liable to pay
additional assessment and the land, the building thereon and its products
shall be regarded as the security for the additional assessment.(2)The
provision of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act II of 1864) [x x x] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] shall apply in relation to the payment and recovery
of the additional assessment payable under this Act in respect of any land as
they apply in relation to the payment and recover)' of the revenue due upon
such land.

### 11. Remission of additional assessment or additional water-cess.

\- Where on account of total or partial failure of crops, the land revenue or
the water-cess has been remitted in respect of any land, the additional
assessment or additional water-cess, as the case may be payable in respect of
such land under this Act shall stand remitted by such amount which bears to
the total additional assessment or the additional water-cess the same
proportion as the amount of land revenue or water-cess remitted in respect of
such land bears to the total amount of land revenue or water-cess in respect
of such land.(2)If any question arises, whether any person is entitled to
remission of additional assessment or additional water-cess under sub-section
(1) or regarding the extent or such remission, the question, shall be decided
by the I prescribed authority and in the prescribed manner, and the decision
of such authority on such question, shall, subject to the provisions of
section 9, be final.

### 11A.

Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981.

### 11B.

Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981.

### 11C.

Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981.

### 11D.

Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981.

### 11E.

Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981.

### 11F.

Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981.

### 12. Exemptions.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no additional assessment or
additional water-cess shall be payable under this Act in respect of any land
irrigated by any source from any of the projects mentioned in Schedule I.

### 13. Power to amend Schedule I.

(1)The Government may, by notification, add any project to, or omit any
project from, Schedule I; and on the publication of such notification, such
project shall be deemed to be included in, or as the case may be, omitted
from, Schedule I.(2)Where a notification has been issued under sub-section
(1), there shall, unless the notification is in the meantime rescinded, be
introduced in the Legislature, as soon as may be, but in any cross during the
next session of the Legislature following the date of the issue of the
notification, a Bill on behalf of the Government, to give effect to the
addition to, or omission from, Schedule I specified in the notification, and
the notification shall cease to have effect when such Bill becomes law,
whether with or without modifications, but without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done thereunder:Provided that if the notification under
sub-section (1) is issued when the Legislature is in session, such a Bill
shall be introduced in the Legislature during that session:Provided further
that where, for any reason, a Bill as a foresaid does not become law within
six months from the date of its introduction in the Legislature, the
notification shall cease to have effect on the expiration of the said period
of six months.

### 14. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by
this Act to be prescribed;(b)the unit for the purposes of assessment under
this Act;(c)the production of documents; and(d)the holding of inquiries and
the enforcement of the attendance of persons at such inquiries and their
examination on oath oi affirmation.

### 15.

Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1972

### 16. Publication of rules and placing of rules [x x x] [Words 'and orders'
were omitted by the Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1972.] before the Legislature.

(1)All rules made under section 14 shall be published in the [Fort St. George
Gazette] [Now, the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] and, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the
day on whuh they are so published.(2)Every rule made under section 14 [* * *]
[Words and figures 'and every order made under section 15' were omitted by the
Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 19.] shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be
placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for 'both
Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.],
and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next
session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses
agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any
modification in any sub rule [* * *] [Words 'or order' were omitted by the
Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1972.] or [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted
for 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.]
that the rule [x x x] [Words 'or order' were omitted by the Tamil Nadu Act 32
of 1972.] should not be made, the rule [x x x] [Words 'or order' were omitted
by the Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1972.], shall, thereafter, have effect, only in
sir modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that an
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule [x x x] [Words 'or order' were
omitted by the Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1972.].

### 17. Additional assessment [or additional water-cess] [Substituted by the
Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981, w.e.f. 1.7.1976.] not to be taken into account for
certain purposes.

\- [(1)] [Section 17 was re-numbered as sub-section (l)of that section and
these words were, and were deemed always to have been, inserted by Tamil Nadu
Act 32 of 1972.] Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act [or in any
other law for the time being in force], the additional assessment [or
additional water-cess] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981, w.e.f
1.7.1976.] payable under this Act shall not be deemed to be land revenue for
the purpose of, -(i)calculating standard acre under the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amend.) Order, 1969.]
Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1955 ([Tamil Nadu] [This Act has now been
repealed by the Tamil Nadu Act 12 of 2004).] Act V of 1955]; or(ii)assessment
of local cess and local cess surcharge under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amend.) Order, 1969.] Panchayats Act, 1958
[[Tamil Nadu] [This Act was repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu
Panchayat Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).] Act XXXV of 1958];
or(iii)calculating standard acre or the compensation payable under the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amend.) Order,
1969.] Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amend.) Order, 1969.] Act 58
of 1961); or(iv)calculating standard acre under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amend.) Order, 1969.] Public Trusts
(Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amend.) Order, 1969.] Act 57
of 1961); or(v)calculating Court-fees under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (2nd Amend.) Order, 1969.] Court-fees and Suits
Valuation Act, 1955 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (2nd Amend.) Order, 1969.] Act XIV of 1955); or(vi)calculating stamp duty
chargeable under the Indian stamp Act, 1899 (Central Act II of 1899).(2)[
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, the additional assessment [or additional water-cess]
[Added by Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1972.] payable under this Act shall not be
taken into account for the purpose of determining the compensation or tasdik
allowance, as the case may be, under-(a)the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Tamil Nadu Act XXVI of 1948); or(b)the
Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotyv^ri) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963); or(c)the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963); or(d)the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963); or(e)the Kanyakumari Sreepandaravaka Lands
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1964); or(f)the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969);] [or] [Inserted by
President's Act 4 of 1976, w.e.f. 1.7.1976.](g)[ The Kanyakumari Sreepadam
Lands (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of
1973).] [Inserted by President's Act 4 of 1976, w.e.f. 11.7.1973.]

### 18. Repeal.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of section 1, the
Andhra Land Revenue (Additional Wet Assessment) Act, 1956 (Andhra Act XXII of
1956), is hereby repealed with effect from the 1st day of July 1961:Provided
that such repeal shall not affect-(a)the previous operation of such Act or
anything done or duly suffered thereunder; or(b)any right, privilege,
obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under such Act; or(c)any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed
against such Act; or(d)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in
respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal
proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such
penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed:Provided further that any amount collected from any person under the
Andhra Land Revenue (Additional Wet Assessment) Act, 1956 (Andhra Act XXII of
1956), for the fasli year commencing on the 1st day of July 1961 or on the 1st
day of July 1962 shall be adjusted towards the additional assessment or the
additional water-cess due from such person under this Act.

### 19. Act to override other laws.

\- Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act shall
have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any
other law for the time being in force, or any custom, usage or contract or
decree or order of a Court or other authority.

### 19A. [ Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Courts. [Inserted by President's Act 4
of 1976, w.e.f. 1.7.1976.]

(1)No suit or other proceedings shall be instituted in any Court to set aside
or modify any assessment made under this Act.(2)No injunction shall be granted
by any Court, in respect of any assessment made, or to be made, or in respect
of any action taken, or to be taken, in pursuance of any of the provisions of
this Act.]

### 20. Act not to apply to certain areas in the State.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) [x x x] [The words, figures
and letter 'and of section 20-A' which were inserted by section 8(i) of the
Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water-Cess (Amendment) Act,
1976 (President's Act 4 of 1976), which came into force on the 1st July 1976,
were omitted by section 8(i) of the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and
Special Water-cess (Amendment) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981), which
was deemed to have come into force on the 1st July 1976.], nothing contained
in this Act shall apply to the Kanya-kumari district and the Shencottah taluk
of the Tirunelveli district and to the leasehold villages specified in
Schedule II.(2)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the
Government may, by notification, direct that the provisions of this Act shall
apply to any of the areas specified in sub-section (1) with effect from such
date as may be specified in such notification.] [Substituted Tamil Nadu Act 39
of 1981, w.e.f. 1.7.1976.]

### 20A.

Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1981

### 21.

The amendments made by this section have been incorporated in the principal
Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Irrigation Cess Act, 1865 (Tamil Nadu Act VII of
1865).]

## I

[See Section 12]Serial No. 1 to 11. [Omitted] [Omitted by the Tamil Nadu Act
39 of 2003, w.e.f. 1.7.2003]

## II

[See Section 20(1)]

Sl. No. | District | Taluk | Revenue number and name of village | Extent of the lease hold  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
1. | [Chinglepet] [Chinglepet district was now bifurcated as Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur Districts.] | Saidapet | 13\. Grant Lyon | Whole village  
2. | do | Do | 55\. Muthapudupet | Do  
3. | Do | Ponneri | 146\. Karadipudhur | Do  
4. | Do | Do | 147\. Kannankottai | Do  
5. | Do | Do | 150\. Thervay | Do  
6. | Do | Do | 151\. Kandigai | Do  
7. | Do | Do | 180\. Pappankuppam alias Alamelu-mangapuram | Do  
8. | [Chennai] [Substituted for 'Madras', by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996.] | - | 121\. Ikkattuthangal | Do  
9. | Salem | Harur | 317\. Hunisanahalli | Do  
10. | Do | Do | 318 Sillarahalli | Do  
11. | Do | Do | 321\. Regadahalli | Do  
12. | Do | Do | 322\. Mottankuirichi | Do  
  
[Schedules III and IV] [Omitted by section 10(2) of the Tamil Nadu Additional
Assessment, Additional Water-Cess Special Assessment and Special Watr-cess
(Amendment) Act, 1980.]

