## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Contingency Fund Act, 1954

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Contingency Fund Act, 1954

## Act 2 of 1954

  * Published on 23 January 1954 
  * Commenced on 23 January 1954 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 January 1954.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Contingency Fund Act, 1954Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1954Received the
assent of the Governor on the 23rd January 1954 and first published in the
Fort St. George Gazette on the 3rd February 1954.An Act to re-enact the Tamil
Nadu Contingency Fund Act, 1954.Whereas it is expedient to re-enact the Madras
Contingency Fund Act, 1950 (Madras Act XIV of 1950), with certain
modifications, as a result of the formation of the State of Andhra and the
increasing of the area of the State of Mysore; It is hereby enacted as
follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted
for the expression 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969,
as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] Contingency Fund act, 1954.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of
Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'State of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)It shall
come into force at once.

### 2. Establishment of a Contingency Fund.

(1)There shall be established for the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression
was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] a Contingency Fund in the nature of an
impress, called "the Contingency Fund of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [The words
'a sum of one crores and fifty lakhs of rupees', 'a sum of five crores of
rupees', 'a sum often crores of rupees' and 'a sum of twenty crores of rupees'
were substituted respectively for the words' a sum of seventy-five lakhs of
rupees', 'a sum of one crores and fifty lacks of rupees', 'a sum of five
crores of rupees' and 'a sum of ten crores of rupees', by section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Contingency Fund (Amendment) Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu act 7 of 1959),
the Tamil Nadu Contingency Fund (Amendment) Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of
1965), which was deemed to have come into force on the 27th October 1964, the
Tamil Nadu Contingency Fund (Amendment) Act, 1969 (tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1969),
which was deemed to have come into force on the 11th July,1969, and The Tamil
Nadu Contingency Fund (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 1975).], and
consisting of a sum of twenty crores of rupees transferred from the
Consolidated Fund of the State of Tamil Nadu.(2)Such Contingency Fund shall be
at the disposal of the [Governor of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'Governor of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.]; and he shall have authority to make advances
there from for the purpose of meeting any unforeseen expenditure, pending
authorization of such expenditure by the State Legislature by law under
Article 205 or Article 206 of the Constitution.(3)As often as any such
expenditure is authorized by law as aforesaid, the State Government shall
recoup to the Contingency Fund an amount equal to the advance taken from such
Fund to meet the expenditure.

### 3. Power to make rules.

\- The State Government may, by notification in the [Fort St. George Gazette]
[Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.], make rules for the purpose of
carrying into effect the provisions of this Act.

### 4.

[* * *] [Omitted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Contingency Fund (Amendment)
Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1969) which was deemed to have come into force
on the 11th July 1969.]

