## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Of Ritual And Practice Of Burying Alive Of A
Person Act, 2002

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Of Ritual And Practice Of Burying Alive Of A
Person Act, 2002

## Act 44 of 2002

  * Published in Gazette 44 on 15 November 2002 
  * Assented to on 15 November 2002 
  * Commenced on 15 November 2002 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 November 2002.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Of Ritual And Practice Of Burying Alive Of A Person
Act, 2002[15th November, 2002][Act No. 44 of 2002]An Act to prohibit the
ritual and practice of burying alive of a person in the State of Tamil
Nadu.Whereas the act of burying alive of a person in the place of worship or
in its precincts in the State of Tamil Nadu endangers the human life and
personal safety of others;And Whereas it is expedient to prohibit such act of
burying alive of a person;PREAMBLEBE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of
the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-third Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Ritual and Practice of
Burying Alive of a Person Act, 2002.(2)It shall come into force at once.

### 2. Definitions

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"bury" means and
includes to cover out of sight, hide or conceal, in or under the ground, a
person of any age, even momentarily.(b)"place of worship" includes a place by
whatever name known and used as a place of prayer or worship and dedicated to
or for the benefit of, or used by, any religion, community or any section
thereof, as a place of prayer or religious worship.(c)"precincts" in relation
to place of worship includes all lands and buildings near any place of worship
whether belonging to the place of worship or not, which are ordinarily used
for purposes connected with the worship whether conducted inside or outside
such place of worship and in particular the backyard and front yard of such
place of worship by whatever name called.

### 3. Burying alive of person prohibited

No person shall,-(1)bury a person alive;(2)allow himself to be buried alive;in
any place of worship or its precincts as a ritual or practice for the purpose
of, or with the intention of, propitiating any deity or otherwise.

### 4. Officiating etc. of burying alive of person prohibited

No person shall,-(a)officiate or offer to officiate at; or(b)perform or offer
to perform; or(c)serve, assist or participate or offer to serve, assist or
participate in;burying alive of a person as a ritual or practice in any place
of worship or its precincts for the purpose of, or with the intention of,
propitiating any deity or otherwise.

### 5. Places not to be allowed or to be used for burying alive of person

No person shall knowingly allow the burying alive of a person as a ritual or
practice in any place which,-(a)is situated in any place of worship or its
precincts; and(b)is in his possession or under his control.

### 6. Penalty

Whoever contravenes the provisions of section 3, 4 or 5 shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine which may
extend to five thousand rupees or with both.

### 7. Abetment of acts prohibited under section 3, 4 or 5

Whoever abets the commission of the acts prohibited under section 3, 4 or 5
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years
or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both.

### 8. Attempt to commit the acts prohibited under section 3, 4 or 5

Whoever attempts to commit the acts prohibited under section 3, 4 or 5 shall
be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or
with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both.

### 9. Operation of other laws not affected

The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of,
any other law for the time being in force.

### 10. Power to make rules

(1)The State Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this Act.(2)Every rule made under this Act shall as soon as
possible after it is made be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly
and if before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next
session, the Assembly makes any modification in any such rule or the Assembly
decides that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form, or be of no effect, as the case may be, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

