## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu (Added Territories) Extension of Laws Act, 1964

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu (Added Territories) Extension of Laws Act, 1964

## Act 8 of 1964

  * Published on 16 April 1964 
  * Commenced on 16 April 1964 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 April 1964.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu (Added Territories) Extension of Laws Act, 1964Tamil Nadu Act 8
of 1964Statement of Objects and Reasons. - By the Madras (Added Territory)
Extension of Laws Act, 1961 (Madras Act 1 of 1961), the Madras (Added
Territories) Extension of Laws (No. 2) Act, 1961 (Madras Act 39 of 1961) and
the Madras (Added Territories) Extension of Laws Act, 1962 (Madras Act 14 of
1962), certain enactments in force in the State of Madras were extended to the
territories specified in the Second Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh and Madras
(Alteration of Boundaries) Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of 1959), which
territories have, consequent on the alteration of boundaries of the States of
Madras and Andhra Pradesh under the said Central Act, been added on to this
State from the State of Andhra Pradesh. Again, some of the enactments in force
in the State have also been extended to the said territories by separate
enactments. For the sake of securing uniformity in the laws in force in the
said territories and the rest of the State of Madras, it in now proposed to
extend to those territories certain other enactments m force in the State of
Madras and to repeal the corresponding laws in force in those territories.2\.
The enactments specified in the First Schedule are proposed to be extended
without any modification. It will be seen from that Schedule that it is
proposed to extend to the said territories the Madras Prohibition Act, 1937
(Madras Act X of 1937), although that Act was in force in those territories on
the 1st October 1953, the date on which the State of Andhra was formed and
continues to be in force there. Similarly, by clauses 10 and 11 it is proposed
to extend the Madras Revenue Summonses Act, 1869 (Madras Act of 1869) and the
Madras Famine Relief] fund Act, 1936 (Madras Act XVI of 1936) to those
territories. This will have the effect, of extending to those territories, the
amendments, if any, made by various Madras Acts subsequent to the 1st October
1953 and of repealing the amendments, if any, made by the Andhra or the Andhra
Pradesh Legislature or, as the case may be, of extending to the rest of the
State, the amendments, if any, made by the Andhra or the Andhra Pradesh
Legislature.3\. The enactments specified in the second Schedule are proposed
to be amended in their application to the added territories so as to bring the
provisions of those enactments into conformity with the provisions of the
respective enactments as in force in the rest of the State.Sub-section (1) of
section 4 of the Indian Treasure-trove Act, 1878 (Central Act VI of 1878) as
amended by Andhra Pradesh Act VII of 1959 and as in force in the added
territories requires the finder of the treasure to give notice to the
Collector, among other things, of the place in which, and the circumstances
under which, the treasure was found. But, the said section 4 as in force in
the rest of the State requires the finder of the treasure to give notice,
among other things, only of the place in which the treasure was found and not
of the circumstances under which it was found. It is, therefore, proposed to
amend the said Central Act as in force in the added territories, so as to omit
the requirement regarding the circumstances under which the treasure was
found.Section 5 of the Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922 (Central
Act XXII of 1922) as amended by Andhra Pradesh Act XXIII of 1958 and as in
force in the added territories, requires the previous sanction of the District
Collector, and in the case of a Presidency-town, of the Commissioner of
Police, for prosecution. But, section 5 of that Act as in force in the rest of
the State requires the previous sanction of the District Magistrate, and in
the case of a Presidency town, of the Commissioner of Police, for prosecution.
Apparently, the amendment made by Andhra Pradesh Act XXIII of 1958, among
other things, substituting the expression" District Collector" for the
expression "District Magistrate" was in pursuance of the scheme for the
separation of the Judiciary from the Executive, whereby the powers under
section 5 which are executive in nature are assigned to the District
Collector. As the scheme for the separation of the Judiciary from the
Executive in the rest of the State is governed by an executive order without
amending the Act for that purpose, it is proposed to restore the expression"
District Magistrate" in the said section 5 as in force in the added
territories so as lo secure uniformity.The amendment proposed to section 4 of
the Madras Silkworm Diseases (Prevention and Eradication) Act, 1948 (Madras
Act II of 1948) is intended to apply to the added territories, a similar
amendment of a formal nature to that Act as in force in the rest of the State
made by the Madras Repealing and Amending Act, 1957 (Madras Act XXV of
1957).4\. The enactments Specified in the Third Schedule are proposed to be
repealed as they are considered no longer necessary.The Ami Jagir Act, 1909
(Madras Act VI of 1909) provided for the inclusion of the Ami Jagir in the
Schedule to the Madras Impartible Estates Act. 1904 (Madras Act II of 1904)
and it has no extent clause. Following the repeal of that Act in its
application to the rest of the State of Madras by the Madras Repealing and
Amending Act, 1957 (Madras Act XXV of 1957), it is proposed to repeal that Act
in its application to the added territories.The Madras Stamp (Amendment) Act,
1922 (Madras Act VI of 1922) provided inter alia for the insertion of a new
Schedule I-A in the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Central Act II of 1899). This Act
is in force in the added territories with the amendment of the said Central
Act by Madras Act XIV of 1958 incorporating in Schedule I to the Central Act,
the matters provided for in Schedule I-A, Madras Act VI of 1922 was repealed
in its application to the rest of the State. Central Act II of 1899 as in
force in the rest of the State has already been extended to the added
territories. It is now proposed to repeal formally, the Madras Stamp
(Amendment) Act, 1922 as in force in the added territories.The Indian
Registration (Madras Amendment) Act, 1952 (Madras Act XVII of 1952 inserted a
new section 23-B in the principal Act so as to permit the registration of
documents registered the loges inter alia at Masulipatnam. As the areas
referred to in the said section are not situate in the added territories, it
is proposed to repeal the amending Act m Its application to the said
territories, following the repeal of the said Act its application to the rest
of the State by the Madras Repealing and Amending Act, 1957 (Madras Act XXV of
1957).The Andhra Requisitioning of Buildings Act, 1954 (Andhra Act XI of 1954)
provides for requisitioning of buildings for certain public purposes in the
municipality of Guntur and certain other areas to be specified by
notification. As Guntur is not situate in the added territories and as no area
in the added territories has been notified, the said Act has no application to
those territories. Hence, it is proposed to repeal that Act in its application
to the added territories.The Andhra Pradesh Commercial Crops (Assessment) Act,
1957 (Andhra Pradesh Act XIX of 1957) provides for the levy of special
assessment on lands cultivated with certain specified crops. The Madras
Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1955 (Madras Act V of 1955) which provides for
the levy of tax on agricultural income has already been extended to the added
territories. The continuance in force of Andhra Pradesh Act XIX of 1957 in the
added territories is considered unnecessary. Hence, it is proposed to repeal
that Act.The Madras Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal Rules,
1955, have recently been made applicable to all members of the Civil Services
who were allotted to this State from the State of Andhra Pradesh Consequent on
this it is proposed to repeal the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary
Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960 (Andhra Pradesh Act II of 1960).Section 2 of
the Madras Estates Land Act, 1908 (Madras Act I of 1908) and section 9 of the
Madras Estates Land (Amendment) Act, 1909 (Madras Act IV of 1909) have already
been repealed in their application to the rest of the State of Madras by the
Madras repealing and Amending Act, 1957 (Madras Act XXV of 1957). Following
the said repeal, it is proposed to repeal those sections in their application
to the added territories also. See clause 13.5\. The enactments specified in
the Fourth Schedule are proposed to be declared to be no part of the laws in
force in the added territories.The Andhra Payment of Salaries and Removal of
Disqualifications Act, 1953 (Andhra Act II of 1954) and the Andhra Pradesh
State Legislature (Vacation of Seat on Simultaneous Membership) Act, 1959
(Andhra Pradesh Act XII of 1959) relate only to the members of the Andhra
Pradesh Legislature and they have no territorial application. As the members
of the Legislature of this State elected from the constituencies comprised in
the added territories are governed by the provisions of the corresponding law
in force, viz., Madras Acts XX of 1950 and XX of 1951, it is proposed to
declare the Andhra and Andhra Pradesh enactments referred to above to be no
part of the laws in force in the added territories.The Andhra Pradesh
Societies Registration (Validation) Act, 1959 (Andhra Pradesh Act XXXIV of
1959) validated the registration of certain societies none of which is in the
added territories. Hence, it is proposed to declare the said Act to be no part
of the laws in force in the said territories.6\. The Bill seeks to give effect
to the above objects.Published in Part IV-Section 3 of the Fort St. George
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 23rd November 1963Received the assent of the
President on the 16th April 1964 and first published in the Fort St. George
Gazette Extraordinary on the 21st April 1964.An Act to extend certain laws to
the added territories in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969,
as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.].Be it enacted by the Legislature of the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] in the Fourteenth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, agamended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] (Added Territories)
Extension of Laws Act, 1964.(2)Section 12 shall be deemed to have come into
force on the 3rd day of December 1960; and the rest of this Act shall come
into force on such [date] [All other provisions of this Act came into force on
the 10th day of June 1964.] as the State Government may, by notification,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"added territories"
means the territories specified in the Second Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh
and Madras (Alteration of Boundaries)'Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of
1959);(b)"existing law" means any law, ordinance, regulation order, by-law, or
rule passed or made before the date of the commencement of this Act by
Parliament, or by any Legislature, authority or person having power to make
such a law, ordinance, regulation, order, by-law or rule.

### 3. Extension of certain enactments.

\- So much of the enactments specified in the First Schedule as is in force on
the date of the commencement of this Act in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of biws Order. 1969, us amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] except in the added territories and relates to
matters with respect to which the State Legislature has power to make laws for
the State is hereby extended to, and shall be in force in, the added
territories.

### 4. Amendment of certain enactments.

\- The enactments specified in the Second Schedule in so far as they apply to,
and are in force in, the added territories are hereby amended to the extent
and in the manner mentioned in the fourth column thereof.

### 5. Construction of references to laws not in force in the added
territories.

(1)Any reference in any enactment specified in the First Schedule to a law
which is not in force in the added territories shall, in relation to those
territories, be construed as a reference to the corresponding law, if any, in
force in those territories.(2)Any reference in any existing law which
continues to be in force in the added territories after the date of the
commencement of this Act to any law repealed by section 7 shall, in relation
to those territories, be construed as a reference to the enactment specified
in the First Schedule corresponding to the law so repealed.

### 6. Construction of references to authorities where new authorities have
been constituted.

\- Any reference, by whatever form of words, in any existing law to any
authority competent at the date of the passing of that law to exercise any
powers or discharge any functions in the added territories shall, where a
corresponding new authority has been constituted by or under any enactment now
extended to the added territories, have effect as if it were a reference to
that new authority.

### 7. Repeal of corresponding laws.

\- If, immediately before the date of the commencement of this Act, there is
in force in the added territories any Act, ordinance, regulation, order, by-
law, rule or other law corresponding to an enactment specified in the First
Schedule, whether such Act, ordinance, regulation, order, by-law, rule or
other law is in force by virtue of section 45 of the Andhra Pradesh and Madras
(Alteration of Boundaries) Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of 1959), or by virtue of
any other legislative power, such corresponding law shall, on the date of the
commencement of this Act stand repealed to the extent to which the
corresponding law relates to matters with respect to which the State
Legislature has power to make laws for the State.

### 8. Savings.

(1)The repeal by section 7 of any corresponding existing law shall not
affect-(a)the previous operation of any such law or anything done or duly
suffered thereunder, or(b)any right, privilege, obligation or liability
acquired, accrued or incurred under any such law, or(c)any penalty, forfeiture
or punishment in respect of any offence committed against any such law,
or(d)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such
right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as
aforesaid;and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be
instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed.(2)Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (1), anything done or any action taken including any
appointment or delegation made, notification, order, instruction or direction
issued, rule, regulation, form, by-law or scheme framed, certificate, permit
or licence granted or registration effected, under such corresponding existing
law shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding
provision of the enactment as now extended to, and in force in, the added
territories and shall continue in force accordingly, unless and until
superseded by any thing done or any action taken under the said enactment.

### 9. Powers of Courts and other authorities for purposes of facilitating
application of laws.

\- For the purpose of facilitating the application in "the added territories
of any enactment specified in the First Schedule, any Court or other authority
may construe such enactment with such alterations not affecting the substance
as may be necessary or proper to adapt it to the matter before the Court or
other authority.

### 10. Extension of [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act III of 1869.

(1)The [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Revenue Summonses Act, 1869 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act III of 1869), as amended by sub-section (2) is hereby extended to, and
shall be in force in, the added territories; and sections 5 to 9 shall apply
in relation to that Act as if it had been included in the First
Schedule.(2)[The amendments made by this sub-section have been incorporated in
the principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Revenue Summonses Act, 1869 (Tamil
Nadu Act III of ,1869).]

### 11. Extension of [Tamil Nadu Act] [Substituted for the expression 'Madras
Act' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.] XVI
of 1936.

(1)The [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Famine Relief Fund Act, 1936 ([Tamil Nadu Act]
[Substituted for the expression 'Madras Act' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.] XVI of 1936), as amended by sub-section
(2) is hereby extended to, and shall be in force in, the added territories;
and sections 5 to 9 shall apply in relation to that Act as if it had been
included in the First Schedule.(2)[The amendments made by this sub-section
have been incorporated in the Tamil Nadu Famine Relief Fund Act, 1936 (Tamil
Nadu Act XVI of 1936)]

### 12. Extension of [Tamil Nadu Act] [Substituted for the expression 'Madras
Act' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.]
XXVII of 1949.

(1)The [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Preservation of Private Forest Act, 1949 [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act XXVII of 1949) (hereinafter in this section referred to as the [Tamil Nadu
Act] [Substituted for the expression 'Madras Act' by paragraph 3(2) of the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.], is hereby extended to, and shall
be in force in, the added territories; and section 5 to 9 shall apply in
relation to that Act as if it had been included in the First
Schedule.(2)Anything done or any action taken including any rule or order
made, notification issued, decision, award or direction given, proceeding
taken, liability or penalty incurred and punishment awarded under the
provisions of the Andhra Preservation of Private Forests Act, 1954
(President's Act XII of 1954) (hereinafter in this section referred to as the
Andhra Act),-(a)as in force immediately before its expiry; or(b)on or after
the 3rd day of December 1960, and before the date of publication of this Act
in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now, the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.], on
the footing that the Andhra Act was in force at the relevant time, shall be
deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the
[Tamil Nadu Act] [Substituted for the expression 'Madras Act' by paragraph
3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order. 1970.]:Provided that Provided
that nothing contained in this section shall render any person liable to any
punishment whatsoever by reason of anything done or omitted to be done by him
on or after the 3rd day of December 1960, and before the date of publication
of this Act in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now, the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.].

### 13. Repeal of certain enactment.

\- The enactments specified in the Third Schedule, section 2 of the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Estates Land Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu Act] [Substituted for the
expression 'Madras Act' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1970.] I of 1908) and section 9 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land
(Amendment) Act, 1909 [Tamil Nadu] [(Substituted for the expression 'Madras
Act' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.] Act]
IV of 1909), in so far as they apply to, and are in force in, the added
territories are hereby repealed.

### 14. Declaration respecting certain enactments.

\- The enactments specified in the Fourth Schedule are hereby formally
declared to be no part of the Laws in force in the added territories.

### 15. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act or
of any enactment extended to the added territories by this Act, the State
Government, as occasion may require, may, by order, do anything which appears
to them necessary, for the purpose of removing the difficulty.(2)Every order
issued under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as possible after it is issued, be
placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the
expression 'both Houses of Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry of the session, in which, it is so
placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for
the expression 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.] in, making any modification in any such order or [the Legislative
Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses agree' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the order should not be
issued, the order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or
be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
does under that order.The First Schedule[See Section 3]

Year | Number | Short title  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.]Acts  
1937 | X | The[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Prohibition Act, 1937.  
1954 | XXIII |  The[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Installation of Oil Engines (TemporaryPermission) Act, 1954.  
1955 | XVII |  The[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Hill Stations (Preservation of Trees) Act,1955.  
1957 | XXI |  The[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Registration of Veterinary PractitionersAct, 1951.  
1959 | XVIII |  The[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Khadi and Village Industries Board Act,1959.  
1959 | XXV |  The[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Irrigation Works (Construction of FieldBothies) Act, 1959.  
1959 | XXVI |  The[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Parks, Play-fields and Open Spaces(Preservation and Regulation) Act, 1959.  
  
The Second Schedule[See Section 4]

Year | Number | Short title | Amendments.  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
Central Acts  
1878 | VI | The Indian Treasure-trove Act, 1878 |  In clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 4,for "the place in which and the circumstances under whichit was found", the words "the place in which it wasfound" shall be substituted.  
1922 | XXII |  The Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act,1922 |  In section 5, for "District Collector",the words "District Magistrate" shall be substituted  
[Tamil Nadu Act] [Substituted for the expression 'Madras Act' by paragraph 3
(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.]  
1948 | II |  The[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Silkwor Diseases (Preventionand Eradication) Act, 1948 |  In sub-section (1) of section 4, for "thereof",the word "whereof" shall be substituted.  
  
The Third Schedule[See Section 13]

Year | Number | Short title  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
[Tamil Nadu Act] [Substituted for the expression 'Madras Act' by paragraph
3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.]  
1909 | VI | The Amir Jagir Act, 1909.  
1922 | VI | The Madras Stamp (Amendment) Act, 1922.  
1952 | XVII | The Indian Registration (Madras Amendment) Act, 1952.  
Andhra Act  
1954 | XI | The Andhra Requisitioning of Buildings Act, 1954.  
Andhra Pradesh Acts  
1957 | XIX | The Andhra Pradesh Commercial Crops (Assessment) Act, 1957.  
1960 | II |  The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary ProceedingsTribunal) Act, 1960.  
  
The Fourth Schedule[See Section 14]

Year | Number | Short title  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
Andhra Act  
1954 | II |  The Andhra Payment of Salaries and Removal ofDisqualifications Act, 1953  
Andhra Pradesh Acts  
1959 | XII |  The Andhra Pradesh State Legislature (Vacation of Seat onSimultaneous Membership) Act, 1959.  
1959 | XXXIV |  The Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration (Validation) Act,1959.

