## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites
and Remains Rules, 1971

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and
Remains Rules, 1971

## Act 638 of 1972

  * Published on 18 May 1971 
  * Commenced on 18 May 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 May 1971.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and
Remains Rules, 1971Published vide Notification G.O.Ms. 732, Education, dated
18th May, 1971, S.R.O. No. A-638 of 1972In exercise of the powers conferred by
section 38 of the Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966), the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments
and Archaeological Sites and Remains Rules, 1971.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and
Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966);(b)"construction" means the
construction of any structure and includes additions to, or alterations of, an
existing building;(c)"copying" together with its grammatical variations and
cognate expressions means the preparation of copies by drawing or by
photography or by mould or by squeezing and includes the preparation of a
cinematographic film, with the aid of a hand camera, which is capable of
taking films of not more than eight millimetres and which does not require the
use of a stand or involve any special previous arrangement;(d)"filming"
together with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means the
preparation of a cinematographic film with the aid of a camera, which is
capable of taking films of more than eight millimetres and which requires the
use of a stand or involves other special previous arrangement;(e)"Form" means
a form set out in the Third Schedule;(f)"mining operation" means any operation
for the purpose of searching for or obtaining minerals and includes quarrying,
excavating, blasting and any operation of a like nature;(g)"prohibited area"
or "regulated area" means an area near or adjoining a protected monument,
which the Government have declared under rule 32 to be a prohibited area or,
as the case may be, a regulated area, for the purposes of mining operation or
construction or both;(h)"Schedule" means a Schedule to these rules;
and(i)"section" means a section of the Act.

## Chapter II  
Access To Protected Monuments

### 3. Protected monuments governed by agreement.

(1)Access to protected monuments in respect of which an agreement has been
entered into between the owner and the Government under section 5, or in
respect of which an order has been made under section 8, shall be governed by
the provisions of the agreement or the order, as the case may be, and nothing
in rules 4, 5, 6 or 8 shall be construed as affecting any such agreement or
order.(2)A copy of the relevant provisions of every such agreement or order
shall be exhibited in a conspicuous part of the protected monument concerned.

### 4. Parts of protected monuments not open.

\- The Director may, by order, direct that any specified part of a protected
monument shall not be open permanently or for a specified period, to any
person.

### 5. Protected monuments when kept open.

\- The protected monuments specified in the First Schedule shall remain open
during the hours specified against them in that Schedule. Protected monuments
which are not so specified and to which neither rule 3 nor rule 4 applies
shall remain open from sunrise to sunset:Provided that an Archaeological
Officer may, by notice to be exhibited in a conspicuous part of the protected
monuments, direct that such monument or part thereof shall be closed
temporarily for such periods as may be specified in the notice.

### 6. Entrance fee.

\- No person above the age of fifteen years shall enter any protected monument
or part thereof specified in the Second Schedule except on payment of a fee
often paise:Provided that the Director may, by order, direct that on such
occasions and for such periods as may be specified in the order, no fee shall
be charged for entry into such protected monument or part thereof.

### 7. Exemption.

\- Nothing in rule 4, rule 5 or rule 6 shall apply to an Archaeological
Officer or to his representative subordinate or workman or to any Government
servant on duty at a protected monument or any part thereof.

### 8. Holding of meetings in protected monuments.

(1)No protected monument shall be used for the purpose of holding any meeting,
reception, party, conference or entertainment except under, and in accordance
with, a permission in writing granted by the Government.(a)Nothing in sub-rule
(1) shall apply to any meeting, reception, party, conference or entertainment,
which is held in accordance with the established custom and usage of the
monument:Provided that if the monument comes within the purview of the Tamil
Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of
1959), then, the Deputy Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments having jurisdiction over the monument, shall be the authority
competent to decide what the established custom and usage is.

### 9. Prohibition of certain acts within protected monuments.

\- No person shall, within a protected monument,-(a)do any act which causes or
is likely to cause damage or injury to any part of such monument;
or(b)discharge any fire-arms; or(c)cook or consume food except in areas, if
any, permitted to be used for that purpose; or(d)hawk or sell any goods or
wares or canvass any customer for such goods or wares or display advertisement
in any form or a show a visitor round such monument for monetary
consideration, except under the authority of, or under and in accordance with
conditions of, a licence granted by the Director; or(e)beg for alms;
or(f)violate any practice, usage or custom applicable to, or observed in, the
monument; or(g)bring for any purpose other than the maintenance of the
monument-(i)any animal, or(ii)any vehicle except in areas reserved for the
parking thereof.

### 10. Penalty.

\- Whoever-(i)unlawfully enters any protected monument or part thereof at a
time when, under these rules, it is not to be kept open; or(ii)unlawfully
enters any protected monument in respect of which an order has been made under
rule 4 or a direction has been issued under rule 5; or(iii)contravenes any of
the provisions of rules 6, 8 or 9, shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees.

### 11. Grant of licence to hawk or sell goods, wares, etc. in protected
monuments.

(1)Licence to hawk or sell goods, wares, etc. may be obtained by applying to
the Director in Form I.(2)On receipt of an application, the Director may grant
a licence or, if he is satisfied, that the licence applied for shall not be
granted, may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse to grant a
licence.(3)Every licence granted shall be in Form II and be subject to the
following conditions, namely:-(a)The licence shall not be transferable and
shall be valid for the period specified therein;(b)Nothing shall be done by
the licensee or any member of his party, which has, or may have, the effect of
exposing any part of the monument or attached lands or garden to the risk of
damage; and(c)Any other condition, which the Director may specify in the
licence.(4)The Director may suspend the licence, if in his opinion, the
licensee does not adhere to the conditions laid down.(5)Any person aggrieved
by an order of the Director, may file an appeal to the Government and the
decision of the Government thereon shall be final.

### 12. Grant of licence to guides to take the visitors around the protected
monuments.

(1)Licence to take visitors around the protected monuments may be obtained by
application made to the Director in Form III.(2)On receipt of an application,
the Director may grant a licence or if he is satisfied that the licence
applied for shall not be granted, may, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
refuse to grant a licence.(3)Every licence granted shall be in Form IV and be
subject to the following conditions, namely:-(a)The licence shall not be
transferable and shall be valid for the period specified therein;(b)Nothing
shall be done by the licensee which has, or may have, the effect of exposing
any part of the monument to risk or damage; and(c)No harassment or teasing is
done by the licensee to any of the visitors by corrupt practices.

## Chapter III  
Construction and other Operations In Protected Areas

### 13. Application for permission to construct within protected areas.

(1)Every application for permission under sub-section (1) of section 18 of the
Act shall be in Form V(2)Every such application shall be addressed to the
Secretary to the Government in the Department dealing with the subject
"ancient and historical monuments and archaeological sites and remains" and
made at least three months before the date of commencement of the
construction, operation or utilisation:Provided that the Government may
entertain an application, at any time before the commencement of the
construction, operation or uitlisation, if they are satisfied that the
applicant had sufficient cause for not making the application in time.

### 14. Licence required for excavation.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 24 of the Act, no person other than an
Archaeological Officer or an officer authorised by him in this behalf, shall
make any excavation for archaeological purposes in any protected area except
under, and in accordance with, the terms and conditions of licence granted
under rule 16.

### 15. Application for licence.

\- Every application for a licence under rule 14 shall be in Form VI and be
made to the Director at least three months before the proposed date of the
commencement of the excavations:Provided that the Director may entertain an
application, at any time before the commencement of the excavation, if he is
satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not making the
application in time.

### 16. Grant or refusal of licence.

(1)Subject to the provisions of section 23 of the Act, the Director may, on
receipt of an application under rule 14, grant a licence in Form VII, if he is
satisfied that, having regard to the status of the applicant, the competence
of the person directing the excavation operations, the adequacy of the staff
to be employed and other relevant factors:Provided that no licence shall be
granted unless the application is accompanied with a fee of Rs. 10 (Rupees ten
only), which is not refundable under any circumstances:Provided further that
no licence shall be granted unless the applicant has furnished security of
such amount, not exceeding Rs. 10,000 (ten thousand rupees) as the Director
may, having regard to the circumstances of each case, require.(2)The Director
may, by order for reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse to grant a licence
in any particular case.

### 17. Period of licence.

\- Every licence under rule 16 shall be in force for such period not exceeding
three years as may be specified in the licence:Provided that the Director may,
on application made to him at least one month before the expiry of a licence,
extend its period by one year at a time, so that the aggregate period does not
exceed five years.

### 18. Cancellation of licence.

\- The Director may, by order, cancel a licence granted under rule 16, if he
is satisfied that the conduct of the excavation operations has not been
satisfactory or are not in accordance with the conditions of the licence or if
any further security demanded under rule 21 has not been deposited within the
specified time:Provided that no licence shall be cancelled unless the licensee
has been given an opportunity to make his representations.

### 19. Conditions of licence.

\- Every licence under rule 16 shall be subject to the following conditions,
namely:-(a)The licence shall not be transferable;(b)The licensee shall, at
least fifteen days before the commencement of the excavation operations, give
notice in writing of such operations to the Director, the District Collector
and the owner of the land to be excavated if the licensee is not such
owner;(c)The licensee shall produce the licence before the District Collector
or the Superintendent of Police concerned or an Archaeological Officer, if so
required;(d)The excavation operations shall be conducted under the supervision
of the person directing the excavation operations named in the licence, who
shall be present at the excavation operations for at least three-fourths of
the total period of the operations;(e)The licensee shall not, without the
permission of the Director, dismantle or disturb any structure found during
the excavation operations and shall make adequate arrangements for the safety
of such structure and of the excavated antiquities till they are taken charge
of by the Director;(f)The licensee shall not subject any antiquities recovered
during the excavation operations to any chemical or electrolytic process of
cleaning without the written permission of the Director;(g)The Director or his
representative may inspect the excavation operations or any antiquities
recovered during the operations and make notes on or copy or film of the
excavated structures and antiquities;(h)The licensee shall not discontinue the
excavation operations unless he has given at least fifteen days' notice in
writing to the Director;(i)At the conclusion of the excavation operations, the
licensee shall give notice in writing to the owner of the land, if he is not
such owner specifying the nature of the antiquities, if any, recovered during
the operations;(j)The licensee shall, within three months of the completion of
the excavation operations, submit to the Director a summary report of the
results of the excavation, and where the operations are carried on for a
period of more than three months, such report shall be submitted every
quarter, and it shall be open to the Director to publish the report in his
reports or reviews; and (k) The licensee shall, as soon as practicable, submit
a report in Form VIII to the Government through the Director on the
antiquities recovered during the excavation operations.

### 20. Recovery from security.

\- The Director may, by order, direct the deduction, from the security
furnished by a licensee under rule 14,-(a)the value of any antiquities
recovered during the excavation operations and lost or destroyed, while in the
custody of the licensee; and(b)any compensation payable by the Government
under section 26 of the Act to the owner or occupier of the land excavated by
the licensee.

### 21. Demand of further security.

\- Where, during the currency of a licence, any amount has been recovered
under rule 20, the Director may require the licensee, within such time as he
may specify, to deposit such further sum as security as equivalent to the
amount so recovered.

### 22. Return of security.

\- On the expiry or cancellation of a licence before its date of expiry, the
security deposited by the licensee or the balance thereof remaining after
deduction of any amount under rule 20 shall be returned to him.

### 23. Publication of the result of excavation.

\- Save as otherwise provided in rule 19, the Director shall not, without the
consent of the licensee, publish the results of the excavation:Provided that
the Director may publish the results if the licensee has failed to publish the
results within the period specified by the Director in this behalf.

### 24. Retention of antiquities by licensee.

\- The Government may, by order subject to such terms and conditions as may be
specified, permit the licensee to retain such of the antiquities recovered
during the excavation operations as may be specified therein:Provided that
human relics of historical importance, and antiquities which, in the opinion
of the Government, are of importance, shall not be permitted to be retained by
the licensee.

### 25. Penalty.

\- Whoever-(i)unlawfully undertakes any excavation for archaeological purposes
in any protected area; or(ii)contravenes any of the conditions of a licence
under rule 19 shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand
rupees.

## Chapter IV  
Excavation In Unprotected Areas

### 26. Intimation to the Government.

\- The person or institution intending to undertake or authorise any person to
undertake any archaeological excavation or other like operations in any area,
which is not a protected area shall intimate his/ its intention to the
Government at least three months prior to the proposed date of the
commencement of the excavation or operation specifying the following details,
namely:-(i)name, location and other details of the site;(ii)nature of
antiquities previously found;(iii)details of previous explorations, if
any;(iv)purpose of excavation or operation;(v)purpose, extent of the
excavation or operation (plan of the site in triplicate showing in red outline
the extent of the proposed excavation or operation should be
attached);(vi)proposed duration of the excavation or operation;(vii)amount of
the proposed expenditure on the excavation or operation; and(viii)name and
status of the person in charge of the excavation or operation.

### 27. Approval by the Government.

\- The Government may, after considering the proposal, approve it or advise
the applicant to modify it or to abandon it altogether.

### 28. Deputation of an Archaeological Officer.

\- The Government may depute an Archaeological Officer to inspect the
excavation or operation, while it is in progress and render such advice as he
deems necessary.

## Chapter V  
Report on Excavated Antiquities by an Archaeological Officer

### 29. Form of report by an Archaeological Officer.

\- Where, as a result of an excavation made under section 20 or 21 of the Act,
any antiquities are discovered, the Archaeological Officer shall, as soon as
practicable, submit a report in Form IX to the Government through the Director
on the antiquities recovered during the excavation.

## Chapter VI  
Moving of Antiquities From Certain Areas

### 30. Application for moving antiquities.

\- Every application under sub-section (2) of section 24 of the Act shall be
in Form X and made at least three months before the proposed date of the
moving:Provided that the Director may entertain an application, at any time
before moving the antiquities, if he is satisfied that the applicant had
sufficient cause for not making the application in time.

### 31. Grant or refusal of permission.

\- On receipt of an application under rule 30, the Director may, after making
such enquiry as he may deem necessary, grant permission in Form XI for the
moving of all or any of the antiquities or, for reasons to be recorded, refuse
such permission.

## Chapter VII  
Mining Operation and Construction near Protected Monuments

### 32. Notice of intention to declare a prohibited or regulated area.

(1)Before declaring an area near or adjoining a protected monument to be a
prohibited area or a regulated area for the purposes of mining operation or
for construction or for both, the Government shall, by notification, give one
month's notice of their intention to do so and a copy of such notification
shall be affixed in a conspicuous place near the area.(2)Every such
notification shall specify the limits of the area which is to be so declared
and shall also call for objections, if any, from interested person.

### 33. Declaration of prohibited or regulated area.

\- After the expiry of one month from the date of the notification under rule
30 and, after considering the objections, if any, received within the said
period, the Government may declare, by notification, the area specified in the
notification under rule 32 or any part of such area, to be a prohibited area
or, as the case may be, a regulated area for the purposes of mining operation
or for construction or for both.

### 34. Effect of declaration of prohibited or regulated area.

\- No person other than an Archaeological Officer shall undertake any mining
operation or any construction,-(a)in a prohibited area, or(b)in a regulated
area except under, and in accordance with, the terms and conditions of a
licence granted by the Director.

### 35. Application for licence.

\- Every person intending to undertake any mining operation or any
construction in a prohibited or regulated area shall apply to the Director in
Form XII at least three months before the date of commencement of such
operation or construction:Provided that the Director may entertain an
application, at any time before the construction or mining operation, if he is
satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not making the
application in time.

### 36. Grant or refusal of licence.

(1)On receipt of an application under rule 35, the Director may grant a
licence or, if he is satisfied that the licence asked for should not be
granted, may, for reasons to be recorded, refuse to grant a licence.(2)Every
licence granted under sub-rule (1) shall be in Form XIII and be subject to the
following conditions, namely:-(a)The licence shall not be transferable;(b)It
shall be valid for the period specified therein; and(c)Any other condition
relating to the manner of carrying out the mining operation or the
construction which the Director may specify in the licence for ensuring the
safety and appearance of, and the maintenance of the approach and access to,
the protected monument.

### 37. Cancellation of licence.

\- The Director may, by order, cancel a licence granted under rule 36, if he
is satisfied that any of its conditions has been violated:Provided that no
licence shall be cancelled unless the licensee has been given an opportunity
to make his representations.

### 38. Removal of unauthorised buildings.

(1)The Government may, by order, direct the owner or occupier of an
unauthorised building in a prohibited area or in a regulated area of a
building or part thereof, which has been constructed in contravention of any
of the conditions of a licence granted under rule 36 to remove such building
or part thereof within a period specified in that order.(2)If the owner or
occupier refuses or fails to comply with an order made under sub-rule (1), the
Government may direct the District Collector to cause the building or part
thereof to be removed, and the owner or occupier shall be liable to pay the
cost of such removal.

### 39. Penalty.

\- Whoever-(i)unlawfully undertakes any mining operation or construction in
prohibited area or in a regulated area, or(ii)contravenes any of the
conditions of a licence granted under rule 36, or(iii)fails or refuses to
comply with an order made under sub-rule (2) of rule 36, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term, which may extend to three months, or with fine,
which may extend to Rs. 5,000 (five thousand rupees) or with both.

## Chapter VIII  
Copying and Filming of Protected Monuments

### 40. Permission required for copying certain monuments.

\- The Director may, by order, direct that no person other than an
Archaeological Officer or an officer authorised by an Archaeological Officer
in this behalf shall copy any specified monument or part thereof except under,
and in accordance with, the terms and conditions of a permission in writing
granted by an Archaeological Officer.

### 41. Conditions of copying other monuments.

(1)Any person may copy a protected monument in respect of which no order under
rule 40 has been made.(2)Nothing in sub-rule (1) shall be construed as
authorising any person other than an Archaeological Officer or an officer
authorised by him in this behalf, while copying any such monument to,-(a)bring
into, or use within, the precincts of such monuments a camera stand, stool,
chair, table, large drawing board, easel or any such appliance; or(b)erect any
scaffolding within such precincts; or(c)use within such precincts any
artificial light other than a flash light synchronised with the exposure of a
camera; or(d)apply any extraneous matter, such as water, oil, grease or any
moulding material, on such monument or part thereof; or(e)prepare a direct
tracing or mould or squeeze of such monument or part thereof, except under,
and in accordance with, the terms and conditions of a permission in writing
granted by an Archaeological Officer.

### 42. Licence required for filming.

\- No person other than an Archaeological Officer or an officer authorised by
him in this behalf shall undertake any filming operation at a protected
monument or part thereof, except under, and in accordance with, the terms and
conditions of a licence granted under rule 44.

### 43. Application for licence.

\- Every person intending to undertake any filming operation at a protected
monument shall apply to the Director in Form XIV at least three months before
the proposed date of the commencement of such operation:Provided that the
Director may entertain an application, at any time before the filming
operation is to begin if he is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient
cause for not making the application in time.

### 44. Grant or refusal of licence.

(1)On receipt of an application under rule 43, the Director may grant a
licence or, if he is satisfied that the licence asked for should not be
granted, may for reasons to be recorded, refuse to grant a licence:Provided
that the Director shall not grant any licence to film the interior of any
protected monument, that is to say, such part of any protected monument as is
covered by a roof of any description, except when the film is for the purpose
of education or of publishing the monument.(2)Every licence granted under sub-
rule (1) shall be in Form XV and be subject to the following conditions,
namely:-(a)the licence shall not be transferable and shall be valid for the
period specified therein;(b)nothing shall be done by the licensee or any
member of his party which has, or may have, the effect of exposing any part of
the monument or attached lawn or garden to risk of damage;(c)the filming
operation shall be restricted to that part of the monument in respect of which
the licence has been granted;(d)no extraneous matter, such as, water, oil,
grease or the like, shall be applied on any part of the monument;(e)the
generating plant for electric power, wherever required, shall be placed away
from the monument or the attached lawn or garden;(f)the filming operation
shall not obstruct or hamper the movement of persons who may lawfully be
within the precincts of the movement; and(g)and other condition in which the
Director may specify in the licence.

### 45. Cancellation of licence.

\- The Director may, by order, cancel a licence granted under rule 44, if he
is satisfied that any of the conditions laid down therein has been
violated:Provided that no licence shall be cancelled unless the licensee has
been given an opportunity to make his representations.

### 46. Certain rules not affected.

\- Nothing in rule 41 and no provision of a permission granted under rule 40
or of a licence granted under rule 44 shall affect the operation of rules 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10.

### 47. Penalty.

\- Whoever copies or shoots films any protected monument or does any other act
in contravention of any provision of this Chapter or of any permission or
licence granted thereunder shall be punishable with fine, which may extend to
Rs. 500 (five hundred rupees).

## Chapter IX  
Miscellaneous

### 48. Appeal.

(1)An appeal under sub-section (2) of section 9 or under sub-section (3) of
section 24 of the Act shall be in Form XVI.(2)(a)Any person aggrieved by any
order or decision of the Director under any of these rules may appeal to the
Government.(b)An appeal under clause (a) shall be in Form XVI.(3)The appeal
referred to in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) shall be preferred within one
month from the date of the receipt by the appellant of the order appealed
against:Provided that the Government may, in their discretion, allow further
time not exceeding one month for preferring any such appeal, if they are
satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not preferring the
appeal in time.(4)Every appeal referred to in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2)
shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the order or decision appealed
against.

### 49. Service of orders and notices.

\- Every order or notice made or issued under the Act or these rules
shall,-(a)in the case of any order or notice of a general nature or affecting
a class of persons, be published in the Official Gazette;(b)in the case of any
order or notice affecting a corporation or firm, be served in the manner
provided, for the service of summons in section 2 of Order XXIX or, as the
case may be, section 3 of Order XXX in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908); and(c)in the case of any order or
notice affecting any individual person, be served on such person,-(i)by
delivering or tendering it to the person concerned, or(ii)if it cannot be so
delivered or tendered, by delivering or tendering it to any adult male member
of the family of such person or by affixing a copy thereof on the outer door
or some conspicuous part of the premises in which that person is known to have
last resided or carried on business or personally worked for gain, or(iii)by
sending it by registered post, acknowledgement due.First Schedule[Vide Rule
5]Hours During Which Certain Monuments or Parts thereof will Remain Open

Serial Number and district | Locality | Name of the monument |  Part of monument which shall remain open duringhours other than from sunrise to sunset | Hours of opening | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
1. | North Acroct | Kuzham-bandal village | Gangai-konda-chole-sarar temple | whole |  From 7 a.m. to 12.00 noon and 3.00 p.m. to 6.00p.m. or sunset whichever is earlier. | \---  
2. | Tirunelveli | Pancha-lankurichi |  Palace remains of Veera-pandia Katta-bomman andBritish Soldiers tombs. | whole | -do.- |   
3. | Coimbatore | Velayuthampalayam | Brahmi Inscriptions on the hill | whole | -do.- |   
4. | Sourh Arcot | Kilakadambur | Rudrabath Temple | whole | -do.- | Key will be available with the village Karnam.  
5. | Tiruchirappalli | Kilaiyur | Twin temple | whole | -do.- |   
6. | Chingleput | Kancheepuram | Chokkeeswarar temple | whole | -do.- | Key will be available on request to the Office.  
  
Second Schedule[Vide Rule 60]Monuments or Parts thereof Entry into which can
be had only on Payment of FeeNilThird ScheduleForm I[Vide Rule
11(1)]Application for Grant of Licence to Hawk or Sell Goods or Wares or
Canvases Customers for Goods or Wares or Display Advertisement.Name and
address of applicant (in Block Letters).Name of the monument of which the
goods or wares are proposed to be sold or canvassed or advertisements
displayed.

Locality | Taluk | District  
---|---|---  
Part of the monument proposed to be utilised. |  |   
Detailed descriptions of goods or wares proposed to be sold orcanvassed or advertisements to be displayed. |  |   
Number of persons proposed to be utilised for the above saidpurpose. |  |   
Approximate duration and date of commencement. |  |   
I declare that the above informations arecorrect. I also undertake to observe
the provisions of the TamilNadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and
Archaeological Sitesand Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and the
rulesmade thereunder.  
  
Station : |   
---|---  
Date : | Signature of the applicant.  
  
If the application is on behalf of an institution, the name thereof should be
given.If the application is on behalf of an institution, the signature should
be that of the head of the institution.Form II[vide rule 11 (3)]Licence to
Hawk or Sell Goods or Wares or Canvas Customer for Goods or Wares or Display
Advertisement in Protected Monuments.Whereas, ....................... of
.............. has applied for a licence to hawk/ sell goods/ wares/ canvas/
customer for goods/ wares/ display advertisement at the protected monument
known as ........... located at ............ Taluk ............. District and
has undertaken to observe the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Ancient and
Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil
Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and the rules made thereunder.I, .................
Director of Archaeology, do hereby grant licence under rule .......... of the
said rules to the said ......... for selling goods/ wares, canvas customers
for goods/ wares/ display advertisement.The licence is granted subject to the
provision of the said Act and rules and is valid for .........................
commencing ................ with day of 19....Station:Date:Seal of the
Department of Archaeology of the Government of Tamil Nadu.Signature of the
Director of Archaeology.Form III[vide rule 12(1)]Application for Grant of
Licence to take Round Visitors around Protected MonumentsName and address of
applicant (In block letters).Name of the monument proposed to be shown
around.Qualification and cultural activities of the applicant.I declare that
the above particulars are correct. I also undertake to observe the provisions
of the Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites
and Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and the rules made
thereunder.Station :Date :Signature of the applicant.Form IV[vide rule
12(3)]Licence To Take Round The Visitors Around The Protected
Monuments.Whereas,...........................................................of..................................has
applied for a licence to take around the visitors at the protected monument
known as located at Taluk ............ District and has agreed to comply with
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and
rules made thereunder.I, ........................... Director of Archaeology
do hereby grant licence under rule ................ of the said Rules to the
said ...................to take around visitors.The licence is granted subject
to the provisions of the said Act and the rules framed thereunder and is valid
for......................commencing with day of 19... day
of.19.Station:Date:Seal of the Department of Archaeology of the Government of
Tamil Nadu.Signature of the Director of Archeology.Form V[vide rule
13(1)]Application For Permission For Construction/ Mining Operation Within A
................... Protected Area.

1. | Name and address of the applicant1 |  |   
---|---|---|---  
2. |  Name of the protected area within which construction/ miningoperation is proposed. |  |   
| Locality | Taluk | District  
3. |  Nature and details of the proposed construction/mining operation in respect of which permission is sought |  |   
(In the case of construction, a site-plan intriplicate showing in red outline
the location of the building inrelation to the protected area and the plan and
elevation of thebuilding should be attached; and the colour, external
appearanceand method of the screening of the building and the depth down
towhich the soil will be excavated for the appurtenances of thebuilding should
be specified.  
In the case of mining operation, a site-plan intriplicate showing in red
outline the extent of the operation inrelation to the protected area should be
attached; and detailsregarding the depth down to which the operation is to be
carriedout, the mode of the operation, the method of the muffling ofsound, the
kind and charge of blasting material and the depth andnumber of plast-holes to
be fired at a time should be specified.)  
4. | Purpose of the proposed construction/ mining operation. |  |   
5. |  Approximate duration and date of commencement of the proposedconstruction/ mining operation. |  |   
  
### 1\. If the application is on behalf of an institution, the name thereof
should be given.

I declare that the above particulars are correct. I also undertake to observe
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and the
rules made thereunder.Station;Date:Seal of the organizationSignature of the
applicant*Form VI[vide rule 15]Application for Licence to Excavate in a
Protected Area.

1. | Name and address of applicant1. |  |   
---|---|---|---  
2. | Name of the site, |  |   
| Locality | Taluk | District  
3. |  Extent of the proposed excavation (a plan of thesite in triplicate showing in red outline, the extent of theproposed excavation should be attached.) |  |   
4. |  Approximate duration and date of commencement of proposedexcavation. |  |   
5. | Approximate expenditure on the proposed excavation. |  |   
6. | Name and status of the Director of the proposed excavation. |  |   
7. |  Details of photographic, surveying and other equipmentsavailable for the proposed excavation. |  |   
  
### 1\. If the application is on behalf of an institution, the signature
should be that of the head of that institution.

I declare that the above particulars are correct. I also undertake to observe
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and the
rules made thereunder.Station:Date:Seal of the InstitutionSignature of the
applicant.Form VII[vide rule 16(1)]Licence for Excavation in a Protected
AreaWhereas,......................... has applied for a licence for carrying
out excavation operations in the protected area known as at
............................ Taluk .......................District and has
undertaken to observe the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical
Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of
1966), and the rules made thereunder and has further deposited the sum of Rs
.................. (Rupees only) as required by the rules.I,
.......................... Director of Archaeology, do hereby grant this
licence under sub-rule (1) of rule 16 of the said rules to the said. to carry
out excavation operations in the area indicated in red outline on the plan
attached hereto.The licence is granted subject to the provisions of the said
Act and Rules and is further subject to the condition
that......................of shall be the Director of the excavation.The
licence is not transferable. It shall be valid for commencing with the
day...........of.............19.........to.........Station:Date:Seal of the
Department of Archeologyof the Government of Tamil NaduSignature of the
Director of Archaeology.Form VIII[vide rule 19(k)]Report on Antiquities
Excavated in a Protected AreaName of site : 1LocalityTalukDistrictReport for
the period from ................ 19 .......... to .............. 19

Serial Number | Class of antiquities material | Number of antiquities | Approximate age | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
Fragmentary | Complete  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Station :Date :Signature of licensee 2.

### 1\. If the application is on behalf of an institution, the name thereof
should be given.

### 2\. If the application is on behalf of an institution, the signature
should be that of the head of that institution.

Form IX[vide rule 29]Report on Antiquities Excavated by an Archaeological
OfficerName of site:Locality:Taluk:District:Report for the period from
................... 19 ............ to ............. 19 .......

Number of antiquities  
---  
Serial Number | Class of antiquities material | Fragmentary | Complete | Approximate age | Remarks  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Station : |   
---|---  
Date : | Signature of the applicant.  
  
Form X[vide rule 30]Application for the Moving of Antiquities

1. | Name and address of applicant. |  |   
---|---|---|---  
2. | Name of the place from which antiquities to be moved. |  |   
| Locality | Taluk | District  
3. |  Description of antiquities proposed to be moved(photographs showing details of the antiquities should beattached.) |  |   
4. | Approximate date of the moving. |  |   
5. | Purpose of the moving. |  |   
6. | Whether the antiquities or any of them are objects of worship. |  |   
| I declare that the above particulars are correct.  
  
Station : |   
---|---  
Date : | Seal of the organization  
| Signature of the applicant.1  
  
Form XI[vide rule 31]Permission for Moving of AntiquitiesWhereas,
........................... of has applied for permission to move from
.......................... Taluk ............... District,........ State to
Taluk, District, State, the antiquities specified hereunder for proposes
of............. and has agreed to comply with the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act,
1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and the Rules made thereunder.I, Director of
Archaeology do hereby grant permission under rule ........... of the said
Rules to the said to move the antiquities specified hereunder from
.............. Taluk, District, ........... State ............. to......
Taluk, ............ District, ........................ State.The permission is
hereby granted subject to the provisions of the said Act and the Rules framed
thereunder and is valid for ................... commencing with day of
19..........Specification of antiquities:Station:Date:Form XII[vide rule
35]Application for License for Mining Operation/ Construction within a
Prohibited or Regulated Area.

1. | Name and address of applicant.1 |  |   
---|---|---|---  
2. |  Name of the monument near or adjoining which the prohibited orregulated area is situated: |  |   
| Locality | Taluk | District  
3. |  Nature and details of the proposed mining operationconstruction in respect of which permission is sought: |  |   
In the case of construction, a site-plan intriplicate showing in red out-map
the location of the building inrelation to the monument and the prohibited or
the regulated areaand the plan and elevation of the building should be
attached;and the colour, external appearance and method of the screeningof the
building and the depth down to which the soil will beexcavated for the
appurtenances of the buildings should bespecified.)  
(In the case of mining operation, a site-plan intriplicate showing in red
outline the extent of the operation inrelation to the monument and the
prohibited or regulated areashould be attached; and the details regarding the
depth down towhich the operation is to be carried out, the mode of
theoperation, the method of the muffing of sound, the kind andcharge of
blasting material and the depth and number ofblast-holes to be fired at a time
should be specified.  
4. | Purpose of the proposed mining operation/ construction. |  |   
5. |  Approximate duration and date of commencement of the proposedmining operation/ construction: |  |   
I declare that the above particulars arecorrect. I also undertake to observe
the provisions of the TamilNadu Ancient and Historic Monuments and
Archaeological Sites andRemains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and the
Rules madethereunder.  
  
### 1\. If the application is on behalf of an institution, the signature
should be that of the head of that institution.

If the application is on behalf of an institution, the name thereof should be
given.Station:

Date: | Seal of the organization | Signature of the applicant.1  
---|---|---  
  
### 1\. If the application is on behalf of an institution, the signature
should be that of the head of that institution.

Form XIII[vide rule 36(2)]Licence for Mining Operation/ Construction within a
Protected or Regulated AreaWhereas, ......................... of ............
has applied for a licence for .................... in ................. the
regulated or the prohibited area near or adjoining at
............................. taluk, District and has undertaken to observe
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and the
rule made thereunder.I, .......................Director of Archaeology, do
hereby grant this licence under sub-rule (2) of rule 34 of the said rules to
the said............. in the area indicated in red outline on the plan
attached hereto.The licence is granted subject to the provisions of the said
Act and rules and is further subject to the following conditions, namely:-The
licence is not transferable. It shall be valid for commencing with
..............day of..........19.......

Station: |  Seal of the Department of Archaeology of theGovernment of Tamil Nadu | Signature of the Director of Archaeology.  
---|---|---  
  
Date:Form XIV[vide rule 42]Application for Licence of Filming Operation at a
Protected Monument

1. | Name and address of applicant.1 |  |   
---|---|---|---  
2. |  Name of the monument at which the proposed filming operationis to be carried out. |  |   
| Locality | Taluk | District  
3. | Part of the monument proposed to be filmed. |  |   
4. |  Nature and purpose of the proposed filmingoperation and the context in which the monument is proposed to befilmed (relevant extract of the script should be attached intriplicate and details of the scenes to be filmed should befurnished in triplicate.) |  |   
5. | Number of persons in the cast. |  |   
6. |  Approximate duration and date of commencement or proposedfilming operation: |  |   
I declare that the above particulars arecorrect. I also undertake to observe
the provisions of the TamilNadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and
Archaeological Sitesand Remains Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1966) and the
rulesmade thereunder.  
  
### 1\. If the application is on behalf of an institution, the signature
should be that of the head of that institution.

Station:

Date : | Seal of the organization | Signature of the applicant.  
---|---|---  
  
Form XV[vide rule 44(2)]Licence for Filming Operation at a Protected
MonumentWhereas, ............................................... of has
applied for a licence for filming operation at the protected monument known as
............ located at ................................ taluk district
............. and has undertaken to observe the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act,
1966 and the rules made thereunder.I, ..................... Director of
Archaeology do hereby grant this licence under rule 44(2) of the said rules to
the said ............... for carrying out of filming operation, as per script
and details of scenes attached hereto in the following parts of the monuments,
namely:-The licence is granted, subject to the provisions of the said Act and
rules and is further subject to the following conditions, namely:-The licence
is not transferable. It shall be valid for commencing with .......... day of
.......... 19......

Station: |  Seal of the Department of Archaeology of theGovernment of Tamil Nadu | Signature of the Director of Archaeology.  
---|---|---  
  
Date:Form XVI[vide rule 48(1)]Form of Appeal

### 1\. Name and address of the applicant, (in Block letters)

### 2\. Date of application for licence.

### 3\. Rirpose for which licence was sought for.

### 4\. No and date of order of the Director of Archaeology.

### 5\. Points for appeal.

Station:Date:Signature of the applicant

