## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Lands Record Of Tenancy Rights Act, 1969

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Lands Record Of Tenancy Rights Act, 1969

## Act 10 of 1969

  * Published on 10 July 1969 
  * Commenced on 10 July 1969 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 July 1969.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Lands Record Of Tenancy Rights Act, 1969Tamil Nadu
Act 10 of 1969Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The Tamil Nadu Agricultural
Lands Record of Tenancy Rights Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1969), provides
for the preparation and maintenance of record of tenancy rights in respect of
agricultural lands in the State. The Act is being implemented in all the
districts in the State.2\. At present, there is no provision in the Act
enabling the Record Officer to conduct suo motu enquiry and prepare a record
of tenancy rights in respect of any land let out for cultivation, if the
landowner, intermediary or tenant having interest in such land fails to
intimate his interest in such land or fails to make an application for
inclusion of particulars relating to such land in tire approved record of
tenancy rights, It has, therefore, been decided to make provision for suo motu
enquiry.3\. Section 7 of the Act empowers tire Collectors to exercise
revisionary powers under the Act. It is considered necessary to take power for
authorising any other officer also to exercise revisionary powers wherever
necessary for the speedy implementation of tire provisions of the Act.4\. Tire
implementation of tire Act is delayed in some cases due to the parties
resorting to Civil Courts for decision on matters to be decided by the Record
Officer, the District Collector or other Officer or authority empowered under
tire Act. It has, therefore, been decided to bar tire jurisdiction of Civil
Courts in respect of any matter to be determined by the said officers or
authority empowered under tire Act.5\. The Bill seeks to achieve tire above
objects.Published in Part IV-Section 3 of the Fort St. George Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 19th August 1968.Received the assent of the President
on the 10th July 1969, and first published in the Fort St. George Gnet
Extraordinary on the 17th July 1969.An Act to provide for the preparation and
maintenance of record of tenancy rights in respect of agricultural lands in
the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil
Nadu in the Twentieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Lands Record of Tenancy
Rights Act, 1969.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It
shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification,
appoint and different dates may be appointed for different areas in the State.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"cultivation" means
the use of land for the purpose of agriculture or horticulture;(2)"Government"
means the State Government;(3)"intermediary" means any person, who, not being
an owner or a possessory mortgagee, has an interest in land by virtue of a
tenancy agreement and is entitled by reason of such interest, to possession
thereof but has transferred such possession to others;(4)"land" means a land
used for purposes of agriculture or horticulture, or for purposes ancillary
thereto, and includes any building or any waste, vacant or forest land
appurtenant thereto and any house-site belonging to the land-owner and let to
the tenant under the same tenancy agreement;(5)"land-owner" means the owner of
the land let for cultivation by a tenant and includes the heirs, assignees or
legal representatives of such owner or persons deriving rights through
him;(6)"possessory mortgagee" means a mortgagee entitled to the possession of
the whole or part of the mortgaged property and to receive the rents and
profits accruing from such properly or any part of such rents and profits and
to appropriate the same in lieu of interest or in payment of the mortgage
money or partly in lieu of interest or partly in, payment of the mortgage
money; and "possessory mortgage" and "possessory mortgagor" shall be construed
accordingly;(7)"record officer" means any officer of the Revenue Department
not below the rank of Deputy Tahsildar authorised by the Government by
notification to exercise the powers conferred on, and to discharge the duties
imposed upon, the record officer under this Act for such area as may be
specified in the notification;(8)(i)"tenant" in respect of any area in the
State (other than the Kanyakumari district)-(a)means in relation to any land
to which the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu
Act XXV of 1955), applies, a cultivating tenant as defined in clause (a) of
section 2 of that Act and includes-(i)a mattuvaramdar referred to in clause
(a) or clause (b) of section 7 of the Tiruchirappalli Kaiaeruvarum and
Mattuvaram Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVI of 1958); and(ii)a possessory
mortgagor, who, under a tenancy agreement, express or implied, with the
possessory mortgagee, contributes his own physical labour or that of any
member of his family in the cultivation of the land subject to possessory
mortgage; and(b)means, in relation to any land to which the Tamil Nadu Public
Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil
Nadu Act 57 of 1961), applies, a cultivating tenant as defined in clause (5)
of section 2 of that Act;(ii)"tenant" in respect of any area in the
Kanyakumari district-(a)in relation to any land other than the land to which
the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural
Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 57 of 1961) applies-(i)means a person who
contributes his own physical labour or that of any member of his family in the
cultivation of any land belonging to another, under a tenancy agreement,
express or implied; and(ii)includes-(a)any such person who continues in
possession of the land after the determination of the tenancy agreement;(b)the
heir of such person, if the heir contributes his own physical labour or that
of any member of his family in the cultivation of such land;(c)a sub-tenant if
he contributes his own physical labour or that of any member of his family in
the cultivation of such land; or(d)any such sub-tenant who continues in
possession of the land, notwithstanding that the person who sub-let the land
to such sub-tenant ceases to have the right to possession of such land;(e)a
possessory mortgagor, who, under a tenancy agreement, express or implied, with
the possessory mortgagee, contributes his own physical labour or that of any
member of his family in the cultivation of the land subject to possessory
mortgage; but(iii)does not include a mere intermediary or his heir;(b)means in
relation to any land to which the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of
Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 57 of 1961),
applies, a cultivating tenant as defined in clause (5) of section 2 of that
Act;](9)"village" means any local area which is designated as a village in the
revenue accounts and for which the revenue accounts are separately maintained
by one or more kamams or which is now recognised by the Government or may
hereafter be declared by the Government for the purposes of this Act to be a
village, and shall include any hamlet or hamlets which may be attached
thereto.

### 3. Preparation of record of tenancy rights.

(1)The Government may, by notification, direct the preparation of a record of
tenancy rights for such village or villages as may be specified in the
notification and such record shall be prepared, maintained and revised in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder.(2)The record referred to in sub-section (1) shall contain the
following particulars, namely:-(a)the survey number or sub-division number,
extent and local name, if any, of the land;(b)the name and address of the land
owner;(c)the name and address of the intermediary, if any;(d)the name and
address of the tenant cultivating the land; and(e)such other particulars as
may be prescribed.(3)(a)As soon as may be, after the publication of a
notification under subsection (1), the record officer shall publish a notice
in the village informing the public that a record of tenancy rights is to be
prepared for the village, and that the landowner, tenant or intermediary of
every land which has been let for cultivation shall intimate in writing to him
of his interest in such land.(b)The notice shall contain such further
particulars, and shall be published in such manner, as may be prescribed.(4)On
the basis of the intimation given under clause (a) of sub-section (3) or on
the basis of information obtained by the record officer under section 9 [or on
the basis of information and particulars furnished or recommendation made by
the Advisory Committee under section 5-A] [Inserted by section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Agricultural Lands Record of Tenancy Rights (Amendment) Act, 1981 (Tamil
Nadu Act 45 of 1981).] or in such other manner as may be prescribed, the
record officer shall, after giving a reasonable opportunity to the parties
concerned to make their representations either orally or in writing, prepare a
draft record of tenancy rights for the village.(5)As soon as may be after the
completion of the preparation of the draft record of tenancy rights for a
village, such draft record shall be published in the District Gazette of the
district in which the village is situated and in such other manner as may be
prescribed. An extract of the entries in the draft record relating to any
survey number or sub-division number of the land shall also be served on the
landowner, intermediary, if any, and the tenant concerned.(6)Any person
aggrieved by such draft record either on the ground that the entry in respect
of particulars relating to him is incorrect or on the ground that his name or
other particulars relating to the land which has been let for cultivation and
in which he has interest either as landowner, intermediary or tenant have been
omitted to be included in such draft record, may, within such period as may be
prescribed make an application to the record officer for the rectification of
such entry or for the inclusion of such name or particulars in the draft
record of tenancy rights.(7)An application under sub-section (6) shall contain
such particulars as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by the
documents, if any, relied on by the applicant as evidence in support of his
claim.(8)(a)Before passing an order on an application under sub-section (6),
the record officer shall follow such procedure as may be, prescribed and shall
also give a reasonable opportunity to the parties concerned to make their
representations either orally or in writing. If the record officer decides
that any rectification or inclusion should be made, he shall pass an order
accordingly.(b)If the record officer decides that there is no case for
effecting the 1 rectification or inclusion in the draft record of tenancy
rights, he shall reject the application.(c)An order under clause (a) or clause
(b) shall contain the reasons for such order and shall be communicated to the
parties* concerned in such manner as may be prescribed.(9)After the disposal
of all the applications under sub-section (6) in respect of any village, the
record officer shall make necessary alterations in the draft record of tenancy
rights in accordance with the orders passed under sub-section (8) and shall
prepare the final record of tenancy rights for the village.(10)As soon as may
be, after the completion of the preparation of the final record of tenancy
rights for a village, such final record shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and the record so published shall be called the approved
record of tenancy rights. The approved record of tenancy rights shall also be
published in the District Gazette of the district in which the village is
situated and in such other manner as may be prescribed.

### 4. Inclusion of lands in the approved record of tenancy rights.

(1)(a)Where subsequent to the publication of the approved record of tenancy
rights, any land has been let for cultivation, the land owner, intermediary of
or the tenant having interest in such land shall make an application to the
record officer for inclusion of particulars relating to such land in the
approved record of tenancy rights.(b)Where any land has been let for
cultivation before the publication of the approved record of tenancy rights,
but the particulars thereof have not been included in the approved record of
tenancy rights or any reason, the landowner, the intermediary or the tenant
shall make an application to the record officer for inclusion of particulars
relating to such land in the approved record of tenancy rights.(2)An
application under sub-section (1) shall contain such particulars as may be
prescribed and shall be accompanied by the documents, if any, relied on by the
applicant as evidence in support of his claim.(3)(a)Before passing an order on
an application under sub-section (1), the record officer shall follow such
procedure as may be prescribed and shall also give a reasonable opportunity to
the parties concerned to make their representations either orally or in
writing. If the record officer decides that the particulars of the land
specified in the application should be included in the approved record of
tenancy rights, he shall pass an order accordingly and shall make the
necessary entries in the approved record of tenancy rights.(b)If the record
officer decides that there is no case for inclusion of particulars of the land
in the approved record of tenancy rights, he shall reject the
application.(c)An order under clause (a) or clause (b) shall contain the
reasons for such order and shall be communicated to the parties concerned in
such manner as may be prescribed.

### 4A. [ Power of record officer to take suo motu action. [Inserted by
section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1972.]

\- Where it appears to the record officer that in respect of any land let for
cultivation, the landowner, intermediary or tenant having interest in such
land-(a)has failed to intimate his interest in such land under sub-section (3)
of section 3; or(b)has failed to make an application for rectification or
inclusion under subsection (6) of section 3; or(c)has failed to make an
application for inclusion of particulars relating to such land in the approved
record of tenancy rights under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (1) of
section 4, the record officer shall make an enquiry in respect of the
landowner, intermediary or tenant having interest in such land, in accordance
with such procedure as may be prescribed and if, after making such enquiry,
the record officer decides that the particulars of the land should be included
in the draft or the approved record of tenancy rights, as the case may be, he
shall pass an order accordingly and shall make the necessary entries in the
draft or approved record of tenancy rights, as the case may be:Provided that
the record officer shall not pass an order under this section unless the
parties concerned have been given a reasonable opportunity to make their
representation either orally or in writing.]

### 5. Modification of entries in the approved record of tenancy rights.

(1)Where any person claims that in respect of any land already included in the
approved record of tenancy rights any modification is required in respect of
the entries in such record either by reason of the death of any person or by
reason of the transfer of interest or by reason or any other subsequent change
in circumstances, he shall make an application to the record officer for the
modification of the relevant entries in the approved record of tenancy
rights.(2)An application under sub-section (1) shall contain such particulars
as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by the documents, if any, relied
on by the applicant as evidence in support of his claim.(3)(a)Before passing
an order on an application under sub-section (1), the record officer shall
follow such procedure as may be prescribed and shall also give a reasonable
opportunity to the parties concerned to make their representations either
orally or in writing. If the record officer decides that any modification
should be made in respect of the entries in the approved record of tenancy
rights, he shall pass an order accordingly and shall effect the modification
and make such incidental and consequential changes in the approved record of
tenancy right as appear to him to be necessary, for giving effect to his
order.(b)If the record officer decides that there is no case for effecting an
modification in the entries in the approved record of tenancy rights, he shall
reject the application.

### 5A. [ Constitution of Advisory Committees. [Inserted by section 3 of the
Tamil Nadu Agricultural Lands Record of Tenancy Rights (Amendment) Act 1981
(Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1981).]

(1)For the purpose of advising the record officer in the discharge of his
functions and in particular in the preparation of record of tenancy rights
under section 3, the Government may, by notification, constitute an Advisory
Committee for every taluk in a revenue district.(2)Such committee shall
consist of the following members, namely:-(a)one landless agricultural
labourer belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes;(b)one tenant;
and(c)three social workers.(3)The term of office of the members of the
committee constituted under sub-section (1) shall be three years from the date
of their appointment and they shall be eligible for reappointment. They shall
continue as such members until the appointment of their successors:Provided
that the Government may, by notification, extend the term of office of all or
any of such members for such period or periods not exceeding six years in the
aggregate as they think fit.(4)The members of the committee shall be paid
travelling allowance at such rate and upon such conditions as may be
prescribed.(5)The functions of the Advisory Committee shall be -(i)to gather
information and particulars regarding the land situated in the taluk with the
name and address of land owner, intermediary and the tenant cultivating such
land;(ii)to furnish the information and particulars so gathered to the record
officer having jurisdiction over the land concerned;(iii)to make
recommendation to the record officer in the discharge of his functions under
sections 3,4 and 5; and(iv)to perform such other functions as may be assigned
by rules made by the Government in this behalf.(6)The record officer in the
discharge of his duties and functions under this Act and in particular before
passing orders under sections 3, 4 and 5 shall take into consideration the
information and particulars furnished and also the recommendation, if any,
made by the Advisory Committee under this section. Where the record officer is
of opinion that the recommendation made by the Committee is not acceptable, he
shall record his reasons in writing and pass orders accordingly.]

### 6. Appeal.

\- Any person aggrieved by an order made under sub-section (8) o f section 3,
sub-section (3) of section 4 or sub-section (3) of section 5 may, within such
period as may be prescribed, appeal to such authority as may be specified by
the Government in this behalf (hereinafter referred to as the appellate
authority) and the decision of such authority on such appeal shall, subject to
the provisions of section 7, be final.

### 7. Revision.

\- [The District Collector or such officer as may be specified by the
Government in this behalf] [Substituted for 'The District Collector' by
section 3(i) of the Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1972.] may of his own motion or on
the application of a party call for and examine the record of any record
officer of appellate authority within his jurisdiction in respect of any
proceeding under this Act and pass such orders as he may think fit :Provided
that [the District Collector or the said officer] [Substituted for 'the
District Collector' by Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1972.] shall not pass any order
prejudicial to any party unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.

### 8. Amendment of approved record of tenancy rights to give effect to the
orders under section 6 or section 7.

\- Where, as a result of an order passed under section 6 or section 7, any
change becomes necessary in the approved record of tenancy rights, the
appellate authority or [the District Collector or the officer referred to in
section 7,] [Words and figure were Substituted for 'the District Collector' by
section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Lands Record of Tenancy Rights
(Amend.) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1972).] as the case may be, shall
direct the record officer to amend the approved record of tenancy rights
accordingly, and the record officer shall give effect to such direction.

### 9. Obligation to furnish information.

(1)Any person whose rights, or interests are required to be, or have been
entered, in a record of tenancy rights under this Act shall be bound on the
requisition of the record officer engaged in preparing or revising the record
of tenancy rights, to furnish or produce for his inspection within such time
as may be specified in such requisition or within such further time not
exceeding thirty days as the record officer may, in his discretion allow, all
such information or documents needed for the correct preparation or revision
thereof, as may be within his knowledge or in his possession or power.(2)The
record officer to whom any information is furnished or before whom any
document is produced in accordance with a requisition under sub-section (1)
shall at once give a written acknowledgment thereof to the person furnishing
or producing the same and shall endorse on any such document, a note under his
signature staling the fact of its production and the date thereof.

### 10. Power to take evidence on oath, etc.

\- The record officer or the appellate authority or [the District Collector or
the officer referred to in section 7] [Words and figure were Substituted for
'the District Collector' by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural lands
Record of Tenancy Rights (Amendment) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1972).]
shall, for the purposes of this Act, have the same powers as are vested in a
Court under the Code of Civil procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) when
trying a suit in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)enforcing the
attendance of any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery
and production of documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavit;(d)issuing
commissions for the examination of witnesses; and any proceeding before the
record officer or the appellate authority or the District Collector shall be
deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228,
and for the purposes of section 196 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV
of 1860).

### 11. Penalty for failure to furnish information.

\- If any person fails to furnish any information or to produce any document
requisitioned under sub-section (1) of section 9 within the time specified in
the requisition under that sub-section or within the further time, if any,
allowed by the record officer under that sub-section, he shall be punishable
with fine, which may extend to two hundred rupees.

### 12. Penalty for furnishing false information.

\- If any person who is under an obligation to furnish any information under
this Act, furnishes any information which he knows, or has reason to believe,
to be false, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 13. Cognizance offences.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except on complaint in writing made by an officer authorised in this behalf by
the Government.(2)No Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a
Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 14. Certified copy of record to be annexed to application in certain
cases.

(1)After the date of the publication in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now,
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.], of the approved record of tenancy rights
under sub-section (10) of section 3 in respect of any village, every person
making an application in pursuance of any of the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1955) or the
Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXIV of 1956), or Chapters III and IV of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts
(Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act
57 of 1961) relating to any land in such village shall annex to the
application, a certified copy of any entry in the approved record of tenancy
rights relevant to such land.(2)It the applicant fails to comply with the
provisions of sub-section (1) for any cause which the officer or authority to
whom such application is made deems sufficient, he shall be required to
produce such certified copy within a reasonable time to be fixed by such
officer or authority and if such certified copy is not so annexed or produced,
the applications shall be rejected, but the rejection shall not of its own
force preclude the presentation of a fresh application in respect of the same
subject-matter, with a certified copy annexed.

### 15. Presumption of correctness of entries in the approved record of
tenancy rights.

\- Any entry in the approved record of tenancy rights shall be presumed to be
true and correct until the contrary is proved or a new entry is lawfully
substituted therefore.

### 16. Inspection and copies.

\- Subject to such conditions and to the payment of such fees as may be
prescribed, the approved record of tenancy rights shall be open to the
inspection of the public at reasonable hours and certified extracts therefore
or certified copies thereof shall be given to all persons applying for the
same.

### 16A. [ Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Courts. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 34
of 1972.]

\- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the
record officer, the District Collector or other officer or authority empowered
by or under this Act has to determine and no injunction shall be gran ted by
any Court in respect of any action taken or to be taken by such officer or
authority in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.]

### 17. Indemnity.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the record
officer, the appellate authority, [the District Collector or the officer
referred to in section 7] [Words and figure were Substituted for 'the District
Collector' by Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1972.] or other authority for anything
which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or
any rule made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie
against the Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by virtue
of any provision of this Act or by anything which is in good faith done of
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rules made thereunder.

### 18. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carryout the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by
this Act to be prescribed;(b)the manner of preparation, maintenance and
revision of the record of tenancy rights;(c)the form in which the record of
tenancy rights shall be prepared;(d)the procedure to be followed by the
authorities and officers appointed or having jurisdiction under this
Act;(e)the time within which appeals and applications for revision may be
presented under this Act in cases for which no specific provision in that
behalf has been made herein;(f)the fees to be paid in respect of applications
and appeals under this Act; and(g)the manner of communicating to the party
concerned every decision or order in any proceeding against which an appeal or
revision is provided for by this Act.(3)All rules made under this Act shall be
published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.] and unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular
day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.(4)Every
rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be
placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for 'both
Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1967.]
and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next
session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses
agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1967.] in making any
modification in any such rule or [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1967.] that the rule should not be made, the rule shall, thereafter,
have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be,
so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without
prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 19. Exemption.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to any land owned by the Central
Government or any State Government, or any local authority.Explanation. - In
this section "local authority" means,-(a)the Corporation of [Chennai]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu 28 of 1996.];(b)any municipal
council;(c)any panchayat or panchayat union council constituted or deemed to
have been constituted under the [Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu
Act XXXV of 1958)] [This Act was repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu
Panchayat Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).];(d)any township committee
constituted or deemed to have been constituted under any law for the time
being in force; and(e)the Tamil Nadu State Housing Board constituted under the
Tamil Nadu State Housing Board Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1961).

### 20. Act to override contract and other laws, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect not withstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law, custom, usage or contract.

