## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Aquaculture (Regulation) Act, 1995

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Aquaculture (Regulation) Act, 1995

## Act 6 of 1995

  * Published on 1 January 1995 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Aquaculture (Regulation) Act, 1995Tamil Nadu Act 6 of
1995Statement of Objects and Reasons. - There are 1600 hectares under Coastal
Shrimp farming in this State and another 500 hectares or more one likely to be
developed for shrimp farming during 1995. As on dates there are no guidelines
for regulatory coastal aquaculture in this State. The unrestricted development
of Coastal aquaculture in the last four years has caused social and
environmental problems leading to agitation by local committees and several
non-Governmental Organisation. The Government have, therefore, constituted an
Export Committee to suggest regulation of aquaculture industries. The Export
Committee has also submitted its report tot he Government.2\. The Government
have, after carefully considering the report, decided to undertake legislation
to provide for the regulation of Coastal Aquaculture in the State.3\. The Bill
seeks to give effect to the above decision.An Act to provide for the
regulation of coastal aquaculture in the State of Tamil Nadu and for matters
connected therewith.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Aquaculture (Regulation) Act,
1995.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come
into force on such [date] [Came into force on 3.5.1995.] as the Government
may, by notification, appoint and different dates may be appointed for
different areas and for different provisions of this Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"aquaculture" means
culturing in captivity in ponds, pens, enclosures, or otherwise, of shrimp,
prawns, fish or any other aquatic life in saline water in saline soil, but
does not include fresh water aquaculture;(b)"aquaculture unit" means a coastal
aquaculture unit which undertakes aquaculture;(c)"coastal aquaculture" means
aquaculture in coastal stretches of land, estuaries, creeks, rivers, drains,
canals or back waters influenced by tidal action;(d)"District Committee" means
a District Committee constituted Under section 5;(e)"Director" means the
Director of Fisheries, Tamil Nadu;(f)"Eco-restoration Fund" means the Eco-
restoration Fund established under section 8;(g)"Government" means the State
Government;(h)"Inspecting Officer" means any Officer of the Fisheries
department not below the rank of an Inspector of Fisheries, as may be
authorised by the Director to exercise the powers conferred on, and discharge
the duties imposed upon, the Inspecting Officer under this Act, for such area
as may be specified by the Director;(i)"person" includes any company, family,
firm, society or association of individuals, whether incorporated or
not;(j)"place of heritage" means any such place of historical, archaeological
or artistic importance, which has been in existence for not less than one
hundred years, as may be prescribed.

### 3. Prohibition of establishment of aquaculture unit.

(1)No person shall, without a licence granted by the Director and except in
accordance with the conditions specified in such licence, establish on or
after the date of commencement of this Act, any aquaculture unit.(2)Every
person who has established any aquaculture unit which is in existence
immediately before the date of commencement of this Act, shall obtain a
licence within three months from the said date in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.(3)Where a person has more than one aquaculture unit,
whether in the same town or village or in different towns or villages, he
shall obtain a separate licence in respect of such aquaculture unit.

### 4. Application for licence.

\- Every application for a licence under section 3 shall be in such form,
containing such particulars and be accompanied by such fee not exceeding
rupees five hundred as may be prescribed and shall be submitted to the
District Committee.

### 5. Constitution of District Committees.

(1)For the purposes of this Act, the Government may, by notification with
effect from such date as may be specified therein, constitute for each
district a District Committee consisting of the following members,
namely:-(a)the District Collector, who shall be the Chairman of the District
Committee, ex-officio; and(b)such other officials as may be prescribed.(2)The
Assistant Director of Fisheries or the Chief Executive Officer, Brackish Water
Fish Farmers Development Agency, as may be authorized by the Government in
this behalf, shall be the Member-Secretary of the District Committee ex-
officio.

### 6. Meetings of District Committees.

(1)The District Committee may meet as often as may be necessary and shall,
subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), observe such rules of procedure
in regard to transaction of business at its meetings (including the quorum at
meetings) as may be prescribed.(2)The Chairman of the District Committee, or
in his absence any member nominated by him in that behalf, shall preside at a
meeting of the District Committee.

### 7. Functions of District Committee.

(1)The District Committee shall examine every application received under
section 4 and make such enquiries as it considers necessary in all respects
and forward the same to the Director with its remarks in such manner and
within such time, as may be prescribed.(2)The District Committee shall, while
examining the applications under sub-section (1), have regard to the following
matters, namely:-(a)the application for grant of licence is in compliance with
the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder;(b)the proposed site
for aquaculture unit does not fall in the prohibited area.Explanation. - For
the purpose of this clause, "prohibited area" means wet lands including bio-
diversity rich areas like, mangroves and swamps, migratory bird routes and
breeding grounds, sanctuaries, national parks and biosphere reserves
designated as protected areas or areas committed to community conservation or
production forestry, place of heritage or place of worship, grey or dark areas
in the map prepared by the Public Works Department (Ground
Water);(c)cultivable lands are not converted for aquaculture;(d)aquaculture
unit does not envisage drawal of ground water for culture
purpose;(e)aquaculture unit shall not be established-(A)in the buffer zone
ranging from-(i)fifty to one hundred metres width in the case of sea water
based farm; and(ii)twenty to twenty-five metres width in the case of estuarine
water based farms;(B)(i)within one hundred metres from the outer border of a
village having a population of less than five hundred;(ii)within three hundred
metres from the outer border of a village or town having a population of more
than five hundred; and(iii)within two kilometers from any place of
heritage.Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause-(i)"buffer zone" means
an intermediary zone between aquaculture zone and non-aquaculture
zone;(ii)"aquaculture zone" means an area where aquaculture activities are
permitted or taken up under this Act;(f)there shall be a gap of not less than
twenty metres for every five hundred metres of sea water based farms and five
metres for every three hundred metres of estuarine water based farms, for the
access to the sea and to the estuary or brackish water river, as the case may
be; and(g)such other matters as may be prescribed.

### 8. Eco-restoration Fund.

(1)There shall be established a fund to be called a Eco-restoration Fund which
shall be utilized for correcting the imbalances caused to the E environment by
aquaculture units.(2)Every aquaculture unit shall deposit a sum of rupees five
thousand , per hectare to the Eco-restoration Fund which shall not bear any
interest.(3)The Eco-restoration Fund shall be operated by the Director in such
manner as may be prescribed.(4)Appropriate eco-restoration work shall be
carried out by the aquaculture unit concerned to the satisfaction of the
Director and in such cases seventy-five per cent of the money deposited by
that aquaculture unit may be refunded by the Director after consulting the
District Committee, at the end of such period, as may be prescribed.(5)Where
the eco-restoration work has not been carried out by the aquaculture unit
concerned, the money deposited by such aquaculture unit shall not be refunded
to it and the eco-restoration work in such cases, shall be carried out by the
Director from out of the money deposited by such aquaculture unit.

### 9. Grant and renewal of licence.

(1)On receipt of an application from the District Committee with its remarks,
the Director, if satisfied, may, grant a licence subject to the conditions
specified in sub-section (2), or refuse to grant a licence :Provided that a
licence shall not be refused unless the applicant has been given an
opportunity of making his representation.(2)The following shall be the
conditions of every licence issued under sub section (1):-(a)the aquaculture
unit shall not be established without the consent of the Tamil Nadu Pollution
Control Board constituted under the Water (Prevention and Control of
Pollution) Act, 1974 (Central Act 6 of 1974);(b)the aquaculture unit shall
deposit a sum of rupees five thousand per hectare to the Eco-restoration Fund
within such time as may be prescribed;(c)the aquaculture unit shall not divert
the drainage channels of the Public Works Department without the approval of
that department;(d)the aquaculture unit shall design the layout and
construction of farms providing for effluent settlement ponds with a view to
discharge the treated effluents in conformity with the standards prescribed by
the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board;(e)the aquaculture unit shall adopt
such sustainable aquaculture practices in harmony with the environment as may
be prescribed;(f)the aquaculture unit shall regulate the use of chemicals and
drugs in such a way that they remain below detection level at the point of
effluent discharge; and(g)such other conditions as may be prescribed.(3)Every
licence granted under this section shall be valid for a period of five years
from the date of its grant and may be renewed, from time to time, and the
provisions of this Act shall apply in relation to a renewal of a licence as
they apply in relation to the grant of a licence.

### 10. Power to cancel or suspend licence.

(1)Without prejudice to any other penalty to which the licensee may be liable
under this Act, the Director may, at any time, by order in writing, cancel or
suspend any licence granted or renewed under section 9, if-(a)such licence has
been obtained by fraud, misrepresentation or suppression of material
particulars; or(b)the licensee has contravened any of the provisions of this
Act or the rules made thereunder or any of the conditions subject to which the
licence was granted.(2)Before cancelling or suspending a licence under sub-
section (1), the Director shall give the licensee, an opportunity of making
his representation.

### 11. Return of licence.

\- On the expiry of his licence or on receipt of any order suspending or
cancelling it, the licensee shall return the licence to the Director:Provided
that the Director may, after such expiration or cancellation, give such
reasonable time as he thinks fit to the licensee to enable him to wind up his
aquaculture unit.

### 12. Issue of duplicate licence.

\- If a licence granted is lost, destroyed, mutilated or damaged, the Director
shall, on application and on payment of such fee not exceeding rupees fifty as
may be prescribed, issue a duplicate licence.

### 13. Power to issue directions.

\- The Director may issue such orders and directions of a general character as
he may consider necessary in respect of any matter relating to the licences to
carry on the business of aquaculture, to any licensee or licensees generally
and every licensee shall give effect to such orders and directions.

### 14. Power of entry and inspection.

(1)For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act or the rules
made thereunder, the Inspecting Officer may, at all reasonable hours and with
or without assistance,-(a)enter into any aquaculture unit and inspect or
examine the aquaculture land or its water spread area;(b)order the production
of any account book, register, record or other document relating to such
aquaculture unit and take or cause to be taken extracts from, or copies of,
such document;(c)ask all necessary questions and examine any person having
control of, or employed in connection with, such aquaculture unit.(2)The
licensee and all persons employed in connection with the aquaculture unit
shall afford the Inspecting Officer all reasonable access and facilities for
such inspection and examination as may be required for the purposes aforesaid
and shall be bound to answer all questions to the best of their knowledge and
belief, to produce documents in their possession, and to furnish such other
information in relation to the aquaculture unit as may be required by such
officer.(3)Where the Inspecting Officer, on inspection under sub-section (1),
is satisfied that the licensee has contravened any of the provisions of this
Act or the rules made thereunder or any of the conditions subject to which the
licence was granted, the Inspecting Officer shall report the fact together
with relevant particulars to the Director,(4)On receipt of the report under
sub-section (3), if the Director is satisfied that the licensee has
contravened any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder or
any of the conditions subject to which the licence was granted, he may make
such order as he thinks fit:Provided that no order under this sub-section
adversely affecting the ; licensee shall be made unless the licensee has had a
reasonable opportunity of making his representation.

### 15. Appeal.

(1)Any person aggrieved by-(a)an order of the Director refusing to grant or
renew a licence or cancelling or suspending a licence under this Act; or(b)an
order of the Director under sub-section (4) of section 14, may in such form,
in such manner and within such period, as may be prescribed, appeal to the
Government:Provided that the Government may entertain an appeal after the
expiry of the prescribed period, if they are satisfied that the appellant was
prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.(2)On receipt of
an appeal under sub-section (1), the Government shall, after giving the
appellant an opportunity of being heard, pass such order on the appeal as they
think fit.

### 16. Revision by High Court.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order of the Government under section 15 may,
within a period of sixty days from the date on which a copy of the order was
communicated to him, file an application for revision of such order to the
High Court:Provided that the High Court may, within a further period of thirty
days, entertain an application made after the said period of sixty days, if it
is satisfied that the petitioner had sufficient cause for not making the
application within the said period of sixty days.(2)The application shall be
in such form, verified in such manner and accompanied by such fee, as may be
prescribed.(3)In disposing the application for revision, the High Court may
confirm, cancel or vary such order:Provided that no order prejudicial to any
party shall be passed unless such party has been given an opportunity of being
heard.(4)Every order passed under this section shall be final.

### 17. Offences by companies.

(1)If the person committing an offence under this Act is a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the
purpose of this section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a
firm, society or other association of individuals; and(b)"Director" in
relation to-(i)a firm means a partner in the firm,(ii)a society or other
association of individuals, means the person who is entrusted, under the rules
of the society or other association, with the management of the affairs of the
society or other association, as the case may be.

### 18. Penalties.

(1)If any person contravenes, or attempts to contravene, or knowingly abets
the contravention of, any of the provisions of this Act or any rale or order
made thereunder, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to twenty
thousand rupees and in the case of a continuing contravention with a further
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees for each day during which such
contravention is continued after conviction thereafter.(2)If any person
willfully obstructs any authority or officer, from entering any aquaculture
unit in the exercise of any power conferred on if or him by or under this Act,
he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 19. Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Courts.

\- Except as otherwise provided in this Act, no Civil Court shall have,
jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question which is by or under this Act
required to be decided or dealt with by any authority or officer of the
Government.

### 20. Cognizance of offence.

\- No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except on a report in writing of the fact constituting such offence made by an
authority or officer authorized by the Government in this behalf.

### 21. Jurisdiction of criminal Court.

\- No Court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial
Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 22. Inspecting Officer, etc., to be public servants.

\- Every authority and every officer duly authorised to discharge any duty
imposed on it or him by or under this Act, shall be deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act
XIV of 1860).

### 23. Indemnity.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any
authority or officer or servant of the Government for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or
order made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against
the Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by virtue of the
provisions of this Act or by anything which is in good faith done or intended
to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.

### 24. Act to override other laws.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or in any custom, usage or contract.

### 25. Delegation of powers of Director.

(1)The Director may, by order notified in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
authorize any authority or officer to exercise any of the powers vested in him
by or under this Act and may, in like manner, withdraw such
authority.(2)(a)The exercise of any power delegated under sub-section (1)
shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be specified in
such order.(b)The Director shall also have the power to control and revise the
acts or proceedings of any authority or officer so empowered.

### 26. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the
form of and the manner of making an application for a licence, the fees for
such licence and renewal thereof, the conditions subject to which, and the
form in which a licence may be granted and the period for which a licence may
be renewed under section 9;(b)the fee payable in respect of a duplicate
licence under section 12;(c)the form and manner in which, and the period
within which, an appeal may be made under section 15 and the procedure to be
followed by the Government in disposing of the appeal;(d)the form and manner
of verification of the application and the fee which shall accompany the
application for revision under section 16;(e)any other matter which is to be,
or may be, provided for, by rules under this Act.(3)(a)All rules made under
this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, and unless,
they are expressed to come into fore on a particular day, shall come into
force on the day on which they are so published.(b)All notifications issued
under this Act shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, come into force on the day on which they are
published.(4)Every rule made or notification issued under this Act shall, as
soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on the table of the
Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is
so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in any such
rule or notification or the Assembly decides that the rule or notification
should not be made or issued, the rule or notification shall, thereafter, have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule or notification.

