## Union of India - Act

## The Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1950

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1950

## Act 74 of 1950

  * Published on 1 January 1950 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1950(74 of 1950)

### 184.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Thefts of copper wires used in telegraph
lines have been so rampant that telecommunications in several parts of the
country, particularly in West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa and Mysore were
considerably dislocated during the last two years. With the co-operation of
the State Governments, the Posts and Telegraphs Department have been making
energetic efforts to prevent such crimes as well as to punish the offenders.
In bringing the offenders to book in a Court of law, however, they have been
.experiencing great difficulty in establishing the identity of the stolen
property, especially as large quantities of copper wires had been sold to the
public by the Disposals Directorate since the termination of the war. Many
offenders have escaped due only to the failure to prove in Court that the
wires found in their possession were stolen from the Posts and Telegraphs
Department. It is apprehended that such thefts are engineered and'organised
systematically, and that the situation might deteriorate if the prosecutions
continue to fail.2\. The copper wires used in telegraph lines are of
distinctive gauges, viz., 150 lbs., 200 lbs., and 300 lbs. per mile and except
for the stocks sold by the Disposals Directorate, wire of these gauges is not
in the market. It would not, therefore, be unreasonable to presume that any
person found in possession of copper wire of any of these gauges came into
such possession unlawfully, except in the case of persons who purchased them
from disposals stock.3\. The present Bill seeks to make unlawful possession of
telegraph wires an offence punishable with imprisonment for five years or with
fine or with both and placing the burden of proving lawfulness of possession
on the accused.Amendment Act 15 of 1962-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-Under section 5 of the Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act,
1950, punishment is provided for anyone who is found or is proved to have been
in possession of any quantity of certain gauges of copper wire which are in
use in the Posts and Telegraphs Department. The punishment includes
imprisonment extending to five years, or fine, or both.2\. There has been a
steady increase in the incidence of copper wire thefts from trunk lines and it
has been noticed in a number of cases that the same set of persons are
responsible for the offence. It is also seen that the punishments awarded by
Courts in such cases have been light. It is felt that the provision of a
minimum punishment for the second and subsequent offences under the Act by the
same set of persons may act as a deterrent to persons. repeating the offence.
For this purpose, it is necessary to amend section 5 of the Telegraph Wires
(Unlawful Possession) Act, 1950.3\. The present Bill is designed to achieve
the object mentioned above.Amendment Act 44 of 1975-Statement of Objects and
Reasons.-The Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1950, was enacted
mainly with the object of simplifying the procedure for prosecution and
conviction of persons accused of thefts of telegraph copper wires. In the
light of the working of the Act, section 5 thereof was amended in 1962 to
provide for a minimum punishment for the second and subsequent offences under
the Act by the same set of persons. This amendment has not, however, achieved
the desired deterrent effect. It is, therefore, proposed to prescribe minimum
punishment even for the first offence under the Act, so as to curb more
effectively the continuing thefts of telegraph copper wires in the country
which have now assumed alarming proportions.2\. At present there is no
provision in the Act for the seizure of stolen telegraph wires with the result
that it is difficult to obtain possession of such telegraph wires in most of
the cases. It is, therefore, proposed to include a new provision for the
seizure by the police of the stolen telegraph wires and the conveyance or
animal used in such thefts, as well as for the confiscation of the stolen
telegraph wires and of the conveyance or animal by Court.3\. Under section 7
of the Act, only officers who are specially empowered in this behalf are
competent to lodge complaints undeit the Act in a Court. Such a procedure has
proved cumbersome and entails constant revision of the list of such officers.
It is, therefore, proposed to simplify the procedure by providing that a Court
shall take cognizance of any offence under the Act only on a report in writing
by a public servant.4\. Opportunity is being taken to amend the definition of
the expression "telegraph wire," so as to specify therein the metric system of
units and to bring it in line with the new Indian Standard Specification for
telegraph copper wire.An Act to regulate the possession of telegraph wires and
to provide for the punishment of the offence of unlawful possession thereof
.Be it enacted by Parliament as follows:-

Enforced on 1.4.1951.The Act has been extended to the Union territory of -(1)
Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6 of 1963; (2) Goa, Daman and Diu by
Regulation 6 of 1963; and (3) Pondicherry by Act 28 of 1968, Section 3 and
Sch.The Act has been extended to Sikkim, see S.O. 208(E)/1975.  
---  
  
### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called The Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act ,
1950.(2)It extends to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force in any
State on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette for such State, and different dates may be appointed for
different States.

### 2. Definitions

.In this Act,(a)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(b)[
telegraph wire means any copper wire with the diameter of which in
millimetres, is, [Substituted by Act 44 of 1975, Section 2 (w.e.f.
7.8.1975).](i)not less than 2.43 and not more than 2.53; or(ii)not less than
2.77 and not more than 2.87; or(iii)not less than 3.42 and not more than
3.52.]

### 3. Duty to declare possession of telegraph wires

.Every person in possession of telegraph wires shall, within six months from
the commencement of this Act, make a declaration in writing, in such form and
to such authority as may be prescribed, stating the quantity of telegraph
wires in his possession.

### 4. Duty to have telegraph wires converted or sold

.Every person in possession of telegraph wires which exceed ten pounds in
weight shall, within one year from the commencement of this Act, have the
whole of the quantity as is in excess of ten pounds converted into
ingots:Provided that it shall be open to any such person to sell the whole or
any part of the telegraph wires in his possession at such price and to such
authority as may be prescribed.[4-A. Prohibition of sale or purchase of
telegraph wires [Inserted by Act 53 of 1953, Section 3 (w.e.f.
30.12.1953).].No person shall, after the commencement of the Telegraph Wires
(Unlawful Possession) (Amendment) Act, 1953, sell or purchase any quantity of
telegraph wires except with the permission of such authority as may be
prescribed.]

### 5. [ Penalty for unlawful possession of telegraph wires [Substituted by
Act 15 of 1962, Section 2, for Section 5 (w.e.f. 30.3.1962).]

.Whoever is found or is proved to have been in possession of any quantity of
telegraph wires shall unless he proves that the telegraph wires came into his
possession lawfully, be punishable,(a)[ for the first offence, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years or with fine, or with
both, and, in the absence of special and adequate reasons to be recorded in
the judgment of the Court, the term of such imprisonment shall not be less
than one year and such fine shall not be less than one thousand rupees;](b)for
the second or a subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to five years and also with fine and in the absence of special and
adequate reasons [to be recorded in the judgment of the Court, the term of
such imprisonment] [Substituted by Act 44 of 1975, Section 3, for "to be
mentioned in the judgment of the Court, such imprisonment" (w.e.f. 7.8.1975).]
shall not be less than two years and such fine shall not be less than two
thousand rupees:Provided that where a person has made a declaration under
section 3 in relation to any quantity of telegraph wires, the burden of
proving, in respect of the quantity so declared that it came into his
possession lawfully, shall not be on such person.]

### 6. Penalty for contravention of provisions of section 3 or section 4

.Any person who fails to make a declaration as required by section 3 or
[contravenes the provisions of section 4 or section 4-A, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or
with both.] [Substituted by Act 53 of 1953, Section 5, for "fails to comply
with the provisions of section 4," (w.e.f. 30.12.1953).][6-A. Powers of search
and seizure [Inserted by Act 44 of 1975, Section 4 (w.e.f. 7.8.1975).](1)A
Police Officer not below the rank of a Sub-Inspector may seize, or search any
place and seize,(i)any telegraph wire;(ii)any conveyance or animal used for
the transport of such telegraph wire, if a reasonable suspicion exists that
any provision of this Act has been, or is being, or is about to be,
contravened in respect of such telegraph wire.(2)The provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), relating to searches and seizures shall,
so far as may be, apply to searches and seizures made under this section.

### 6\.

-B. Confiscation of telegraph wires, conveyances, etc.Where any person has been convicted for the contravention of any of the provisions of this Act, the telegraph wires in relation to which the contravention has been made and any conveyance or animal used for the transport of such telegraph wires, shall be liable to confiscation by the Court unless the owner of the conveyance or animal proves that it was so used without the knowledge or connivance of the owner himself, his agent, if any, and the person in charge of the conveyance or animal and that each of them had taken all reasonable precautions against such use:Provided that where any such conveyance or animal is used for the transport of goods or passengers for hire, the owner of the conveyance or animal shall be given an option to pay in lieu of the confiscation of the conveyance or animal, or fine not exceeding the market price of the conveyance or animal on the date of seizure thereof or the value of the telegraph wires in relation to which the contravention has been made, whichever is less:Provided further that any telegraph wires, so seized and confiscated shall be handed over by the Court to such authority as may be specified by the Central Government.]

### 7. Cognizance of offences

.[(1) No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under the Act,
except on a report in writing of the facts constituting such offence made by a
person who is a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860).] [Substituted by Act 44 of 1975, Section 5, for sub-
Section (1) (w.e.f. 7.8.1975).](2)No Court inferior to that a Presidency
Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class try and offence punishable under
this Act.

### 8. Power to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:(a)the form in which, and the
authorities to which, declarations under section 3 may be made;(b)the
authorities to which, and the prices at which, telegraph wires may be sold
under section 4.(3)[ Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as soon
as may be after it is made before each House of Parliament while it is in
session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in session
[or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the
session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid] [Inserted by Act 15 of 1962, Section 3 (w.e.f. 30.3.1962).] both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under the rule.]

