## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Of Harassment Of Women Act, 1998

TAMILNADU  
India

# The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Of Harassment Of Women Act, 1998

## Act 44 of 1998

  * Published in Gazette 44 on 21 December 2016 
  * Assented to on 21 December 2016 
  * Commenced on 21 December 2016 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 December 2016.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Of Harassment Of Women Act, 1998Act No. 44 of
1998An Act to prohibit Harassment of Women in any place in the State of Tamil
Nadu.BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in
the Forty-ninth year of the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1. Short title and commencement.—

(1)This Act may be called THE TAMIL NADU PROHIBITION OF HARASSMENT OF WOMEN
ACT, 1998.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 30th day of
July 1998.

### 2. Definitions.—

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—(a)'"harassment" means any
indecent conduct or act by a man which causes or is likely to cause
intimidation, fear, shame or embarrassment, including abusing or causing hurt
or nuisance or assault or use of force;(b)"public service vehicle" shall have
the same meaning as defined in clause (35) of Section 2 of the Motor Vehicles
Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988);(c)words and expressions used but not
defined in this Act shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indian
Penal Code, 1860 (Central Act 45 of 1860).

### 3. Prohibition of harassment of women.—

Harassment of women at any place is prohibited.

### 4. Penalty for harassment of women.—

Whoever commits or participates in or abets harassment of women in or within
the precincts of any educational institution, temple or other place of
worship, bus stop, road, railway station, cinema theatre, park, beach, place
of festival, public service vehicle or vessel or any other place shall be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with
fine which shall not be less than ten thousand rupees.

### 4A. Harassment death.—

(1)Where the death of a woman is caused by bodily injury or occurs otherwise
than under normal circumstances and if it is shown that soon before her death,
she was subjected to harassment or that in respect of her an offence under
Section 294, 354 or 509 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act 45 of 1860) was
committed, such death shall be called harassment death.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in Section 4, whoever commits harassment death and if the
act by which the death is caused,–(i)is done with the intention of causing
death or of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
to imprisonment for life and with fine which shall not be less than fifty
thousand rupees;(ii)is done with knowledge that it is likely to cause death
but without any intention to cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to
cause death, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to ten years and with fine which shall not be less than
fifty thousand rupees;(iii)is rash or negligent, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years
and with fine which shall not be less than twenty-five thousand rupees.

### 4B. Harassment suicide.—

(1)If any woman commits suicide and it is shown that soon before her death,
she was subjected to harassment by any person or that in respect of her an
offence under Section 294, 354 or 509 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act 45
of 1860) was committed, such suicide shall be called the harassment suicide
and such person shall be deemed to have abetted the suicide.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in Section 4, whoever abets harassment suicide shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
to ten years and with fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand rupees.

### 4C. Presumption as to harassment death and abetment of harassment
suicide.—

When the question is whether any person had caused harassment death or abetted
harassment suicide of a women, the court shall, unless the contrary is proved,
presume that such person had caused the harassment death or abetted the
harassment suicide, as the case may be, when it is shown that before her
death, such women had been subjected to harassment or, in respect of her an
offence was committed under Section 294, 354 or 509 of Indian Penal Code
(Central Act 45 of 1860) and bodily injury was caused in furtherance of such
harassment or commission of the said offence by or at the instance of that
person and it resulted in death or suicide, as the case may be, of that women.

### 5. Responsibility of management of any precinct.—

(1)Any person who is incharge of educational institution, temple or other
places of worship, cinema theatre or any other precinct shall, —(2)Any person
who fails to take action under sub-section (1) shall be liable to fine which
may extend to two thousand rupees.

### 6. Duty of crew in public service vehicle.—

(1)The crew of a public service vehicle or vessel shall take such steps as
they may deem fit to prevent harassment of women in the vehicle or vessel.
Where such harassment is committed in public service vehicle, the crew of such
vehicle shall, on a complaint made by the aggrieved person, take such vehicle
to the nearest police station and give information to the police.(2)Any crew
who fails to take steps under sub-section (1) shall be liable to fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 7. Deemed abetment.—

(1)Where any vehicle or vessel is used in the commission of any offence
punishable under Section 4, 4-A or 4-B, the driver of such vehicle or vessel
shall, unless the contrary is proved, be deemed to have abetted the offence
under Section 4, 4-A or 4-B, as the case may be, and shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine which
shall not be less than five thousand rupees.(2)The vehicle or vessel specified
in sub-section (1) shall be confiscated unless the owner of such vehicle or
vessel proves that such vehicle was used in committing harassment of women
without his knowledge.

### 7A. Order to pay compensation.—

The court may, when awarding a sentence under Section 4, 4-A or 4-B, order the
accused to pay, by way of compensation, such amount as may be specified in the
order, to the person who has suffered any loss or injury or disability or
mental agony by reason of the act which the accused person has been so
sentenced or to her legal heir.

### 8. Operation of other laws not affected.—

The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of,
any other law for the time being in force.

### 9. Power to make Rules.—

(1)The State Government may make Rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)All Rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every Rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible after
it is made, be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before
the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the
Assembly makes any modification in any such Rule, or the Assembly decides that
the Rule should not be made, the Rule shall thereafter have effect only on
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that Rule.

### 10. Repeal and saving.—

(1)The Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Eve-teasing Ordinance, 1998 (Tamil Nadu
Ordinance 4 of 1998) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,
anything done or any action taken under the Ordinance shall be deemed to have
been done or taken under this Act.

