## Union of India - Act

## The Union Territories (Direct Election To The house Of The People) Act,
1965

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Union Territories (Direct Election To The house Of The People) Act, 1965

## Act 49 of 1965

  * Published on 22 December 1965 
  * Commenced on 22 December 1965 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 December 1965.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Union Territories (Direct Election To The house Of The People) Act,
1965ACT NO. 49 OF 1965

### 1309.

The Union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Laccadive, Minicoy
and Aminidivi Islands and Dadra and Nagar Haveli have been allotted one seat
each in the House of the People. Under the existing law, these seats are to be
filled by persons nominated by the President. The Bill seeks to provide that
at the next general election and thereafter as and when necessary these seats
shall be filled by direct election. - Gazette of India, 31-3-1965, Pt. II -
Section 2, Ext., p. 323.[22nd December, 1965]An Act to provide for direct
election in certain Union territories for filling the seats allotted to them
in the House of the People and for matters connected therewith.BE it enacted
by Parliament in the Sixteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.

This Act may be called the Union Territories (Direct Election to the House of
the People) Act, 1965.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act-(a)"parliamentary constituency" has the same meaning as in the
Representation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950);(b)"sitting member" means
a person who immediately before the commencement of this Act is a member of
the House of the People ;(c)"Union territory" means any of the Union
territories of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Laccadive, Minicoy and
Amindivi Islands and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.

### 3. Direct election to fill the seats in the House of the People allotted
to certain Union Territories.

At the next general election to the House of the People and thereafter, the
seats allotted under section 3 of the Representation of the People Act, 1950
(43 of 1950) to the Union territories in the House of the People shall be
seats to be filled by persons chosen by direct election and for that purpose
each Union territory shall form one parliamentary constituency.

### 4. Amendment of Act 43 of 1950.

[Repealed by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1974 (56 of 1974), Section 2 and
1st Sch. (20-12-1974)].

### 5. Amendment of Act 43 of 1951.

[Repealed by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1974 (56 of 1974), Section 2 and
1st Sch. (20-12-1974)].

### 6. Provision as to sitting member.

The sitting member representing each Union territory shall continue to
represent that Union territory until the dissolution of the present House of
the People and if before such dissolution the seat allotted to a Union
territory in the House of the People becomes vacant it shall be filled by a
person nominated by the President and that person shall represent the Union
territory in the present House of the People until its dissolution.

