## Union of India - Act

## The Unit Trust Of India Act, 1963

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Unit Trust Of India Act, 1963

## Act 52 of 1963

  * Published on 30 December 1963 
  * Commenced on 30 December 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 December 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Repealed by The Unit Trust Of India (Transfer Of Undertaking And Repeal) Act, 2002 (Act 58 of 2002) on 17 December 2002] 

The Unit Trust Of India Act, 1963ACT NO. 52 OF 1963

### 1318.

The question of establishing an institution in the public sector, fur carrying
on the business which i, transacted by unit trusts or mutual funds in other
countries has been under consideration for some time. It is now proposed to
establish such an institution, to be known as Unit Trust of India, with an
initial capital of five crores of rupees. The Unit Trust of India will
encourage saving by providing for various classes of investoes the facility of
investing their money in units of the Trust. The Trust will invest the initial
capital and the capital obtained by the sale of units in shares and other
securities and will distribute every year not less than ninety per cent. of
the net income accruing to the unit-holders. It is expected that the risk of
losses or of depreciation on account of the investments will be reduced or
eliminated as a result of the proposed arrangement. The Trust will also he in
a position to contribute, through its operations, to the growth and
diversification of country's economy.The various provisions of the Bill are
explained in detail in the notes on clauses.-Gazette of India, 26-11-1963. PI.
II, Section 2, Ext., p. 802.Amending Act 10 of 1965 - The Unit Trust of India
Act. 1963 provide', at present for the sale of units by the Trust under a
scheme, which was brought into force on July 1, 1964. Although the response
from the public has been encouraging, it is considered desirable that the
Trust should be enabled at this stage to offer in addition, facilities for the
acquisition of units by various classes of investors under other schemes
catering to their special preferences or requirements. It is also proposed
that the Unit Trust should be in a position to formulate plans for the
accumulation of saving by intending investors. for subsequent investment in
units.

### 2. The Bill seeks to amend the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 for these and
for certain other purposes. - Gazette of India, 10-12-1965, Pt. II, Section 2.
Ext., p. 1258.

Amending Act 16 of 1975. - During the last few months there was a spurt in the
redemption of the units issued by the Unit Trust of India causing a serious
impact on the liquidity of the Unit Trust of India. To curb this trend and to
provide incentive for fresh investments in units of the Unit Trust of India,
the President promulgated an Ordinance on the 7th January, 1975, amending the
Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 and the Indian Trusts Act, 1882.The amendments
envisage the grant of further relief from income-tax to the extent of Rs.
2,000 for income from units over and above the existing limit of Rs. 3,000
already available under section 80-L of the Income-tax Act. 1961. in respect
of certain approved investments including units, and also provide for further
exemption up to Rs. 25.000 from Wealth-tax on investment in units over and
above the existing exemption limit under section 5 of the Wealth-tax Act, 1957
in respect of the investments including units specified in that section. The
Ordinance specifies that the units of the Unit Trust of India will be eligible
to be treated as trustee securities under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882, and the
amounts payable to the nominees of the unit-holders will, subject to certain
conditions, vest in the nominees.The Bill seeks to replace the above Ordinance
with certain modifications specified in a separate memorandum appended to the
Bill. - Gazette of India, 10-3-1975. Pt. 11, Section 2. Ext., p. 204.Amending
Act 3 of 1976, - Government have recently been examining various suggestions
to mobilise the savings of non-resident Indians and aliens of Indian origin
living abroad and to facilitate investment by them in India. At preset
investments made by non-resident Indians and aliens of Indian origin in fixed
deposits with Commercial Banks out of the Non-Resident (External) Accounts are
totally exempt from payment of Income-tax and Wealth-tax. In order to make the
investments in units of the Unit Trust of India also attractive and to
encourage the flow of foreign exchange into the country, the President
promulgated the Unit Trust of India (Amendment) Ordinance, 1975 on 31st
October, 1975 amending the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963.2\. The ordinance
provides that the income earned from units of the Unit Trust of India
purchased by non-residel Indians and aliens of Indian origin from Non-Resident
(External) Accounts or through remittance of foreign exchange wig be free of
income-tax. The Ordinance further provides that investments in units by the
above mentioned persons either from Non-Resident (External) Accounts or
through remittance of foreign exchange will also be free of Wealth-tax.3\. The
present Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance - Gazette of India,
12-1-1976. Pt. II, Section 2. Ext., p. 276.Act 63 of 1985. - The Unit Trust of
India has been functioning for over two decades now. It has received the
acceptance of the investors and has grown substantially in stature and
strength. With its growth it has to better utilise the resources it mobilises
and generate income and profits through a variety of investment activities.The
principal objective of the Bill is to widen the scope of the business which
the Trust can transact to enable the Trust to effectively channelise the funds
mobilised by it from the public into more productive investment outlets both
is Itdn and outside India. This would provide for a good and growing return to
the unit-holder and the Trust would realise is objective by optimum
utilisation of opportunities for investment.Apart from the above, the Bill
also provides for management of investments by non-residents, merchant bankiq,
direct lending, bills discounting, leasing and other matters, including a
special provision for enforcement of the claims of the Trust.The Bill seeks to
achieve the above objectives. - Gazette of India, 5-8-1985, Pt. II, Section 2.
Ext., p. 9 (No. 39).[30th December, 1963]An Act to provide for the
establishment of a Corporation with a view to encouraging saving and
investment and participation in the income, profits and gains accruing to the
Corporation from the acquisition, holding, management and disposal of
securities.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fourteenth Year of the Republic
of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963.(2)It extends to
the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

1st February, 1964; vide Notification No. G.S.R. 172, dated 31-1-1964, Gazette
of India, Extraordinary, Pt. II, Section 3(i), p. 347  
---  
  
### 2\. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Board" means the Board
of trustees constituted under section 10 or section 41;(b)"contributing
institution" means an institution which is, for the time being, a contributory
to the initial capital of the Trust under section 4;(c)"contribution
certificate" means a certificate issued under section 6;(ca)[ "Development
Bank" means the Industrial Development Bank of India established under the
Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964 (18 of 1964);] [Inserted by Act
52 of 1975, Section 44 (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)](cb)[ "first unit scheme" means the
unit scheme made before the commencement of the Unit Trust of India
(Amendment) Act, 1966 (17 of 1966);] [Inserted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 44
(w.e.f. 16-2-1976)](cc)[ "General Insurance Corporation" means the General
Insurance Corporation of India formed under section 9 of the General Insurance
Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972;] [Inserted by Act 63 of 1985, Section 2
(w.e.f. 23.4.1986)](d)"initial capital" means the capital of the Trust
referred to in section 4;(e)"Life Insurance Corporation" means the Life
Insurance Corporation of India established under the Life Insurance
Corporation Act, 1956 (31 of 1956);(f)"prescribed" means prescribed by
regulations made under this Act;(fa)[ "public financial institution" means
every financial institution, other than the Trust, specified by or under
section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956;] [Inserted by Act 63 of 1985, s.2
(w.e.f. 23.4.1986)](g)"Reserve Bank" means the Reserve Bank of India
constituted under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of
1934);(h)"scheduled bank" means a bank for the time being included in the
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);(i)[
"security" means- [Substituted by Act 63 of 1985 s. 2, (w.e.f.
23-4-1986)](a)any share, stock, bond, debenture or debenture stock, of any
body corporate;(b)any unit or sub-unit issued by, or other participation in a
unit scheme framed by, any body or authority (not being the Trust) outside
India or a mutual fund established outside India; and includes-(i)a government
security as defined in section 2 of the Public Debt Act, 1944 (18 of
1944);(ii)a savings certificate to which the Government Savings Certificates
Act, 1959 (46 of 1959), applies;(iii)any security issued by any local
authority in India, or by the Government of, or a local authority in, any such
country outside India as may be approved by the Reserve Bank; and(iv)any
foreign security as defined in section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation
Act, 1973 (46 of 1973), as may be approved by the Reserve Bank;](j)"State
Bank" means the State Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of India
Act, 1955 (23 of 1955);(jj)[ "subsequent unit scheme" means any scheme made
after the commencement of the Unit Trust of India (Amendment) Act, 1966 (17 of
1966);] [Inserted by Act 17 of 1966, Section 2 (w.e.f.
10-6-1966)](k)"subsidiary bank" has the same meaning as in section 2 of the
State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959);(l)"Trust" means
the Unit Trust of India established under section 3;(m)"trustee" means a
trustee appointed, nominated or elected under section 10 or section
41;(n)"unit" means a unit issued under [a unit scheme] [Substituted by act 17
of 1966 s. 2, for "the unit scheme" (w.e.f. 10-6-1966)];(o)"unit capital"
means the aggregate of the face value of the units sold under [a unit scheme]
[Substituted by Act 63 of 1985 s. 2, (w.e.f. 23-4-1986)] and outstanding for
the time being;(p)"unit certificate" means a certificate issued to the
purchaser of a unit under [a unit scheme] [Substituted by Act 17 of 1966, s.2,
for "the unit scheme" (w.e.f 10-6-1966)];(q)"unit holder" means a person for
the time being recognised by the Trust as the holder of a unit certificate
under [a unit scheme] [Substituted by Act 17 of 1966, s.2, for "the unit
scheme" (w.e.f 10-6-1966)];(r)"unit scheme" means a scheme made under section
21.

## Chapter II  
Establishment Of The Unit Trust Of India And The Initial Capital Thereof

### 3. Establishment and incorporation of Unit Trust of India.

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
establish a Corporation by the name of the Unit Trust of India which shall be
a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with power,
subject to the provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold or dispose of property
and to contract, and may, by the said name, sue or be sued.(2)The head office
of the Trust shall be at Bombay or at such other place as the [Development
Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 45, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f.
16-2-1976)] may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.(3)The Trust
may establish local offices, branches or agencies at any places in or outside
India.

For establishment of the 'Unit Trust of India' Corporation w.e.f. 1-2-1964 -
See G.S.R. 173, dated 31-1-1964, published in Gazette of India, 31-1-1964, Pt.
II - Section 3(i), Ext., p. 47.  
---  
  
### 3A. [ Prohibition against the use of the words "Unit Trust", "Unit" or
"Units" as a part of the name of any person other than the Trust. [Inserted by
Act 16 of 1975, Section 3 (w.e.f. 29-3-1975)]

(1)No individual or group of individuals, or company, other than the Trust,
who or which accepts money by way of any loan, deposit, investment or similar
other transaction, shall use the word or words "Unit Trust", "Unit" or "Units"
as a part of his or its name.Explanation.--For the removal of doubts it is
hereby declared that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to prevent
any individual or group of individuals, or company from describing any scrip
or other security issued by him or it for any amount which has been received
and repayable by him or it in the course of transaction of any business which
is of the nature of a unit trust or mutual fund, as a unit certificate or
units, as the case may be.(2)If any provision of sub-section (1) is
contravened, any person guilty of such contravention shall be punished with
fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, and where the contravention is a
continuing one, with a further fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for
every day after the first during which the contravention continues.(3)Where
any provision of sub-section (1) has been contravened by a company, every
person who at the time of such contravention was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the contravention and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that
nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to
any punishment provided herein if he proves that the contravention was made
without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent
the contravention.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3),
where any offence under this section has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of, any
director, manager, secretary or other officer, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.(5)No court
shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this section except upon
a complaint in writing made by an officer of the Trust generally or specially
authorized in writing in this behalf by the Trust and no court inferior to
that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class
shall try such offence.Explanation.--For the purposes of this
section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm, means a
partner in the firm.]

### 4. Initial capital of Trust.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the initial capital of the Trust
shall be five crores of rupees divided in the form of certificates each of
which shall be of such face value as may be prescribed and contributed in the
manner hereinafter provided.(2)Before such date as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf-(a)the Reserve
Bank shall contribute two and a half crores of rupees;(b)the Life Insurance
Corporation shall contribute seventy-five lakhs of rupees;(c)the State Bank
and the subsidiary banks shall contribute seventy-five lakhs of rupees, the
amount which the State Bank and each subsidiary bank shall contribute being
determined by the State Bank;(d)other institutions, namely, scheduled banks
other than those referred to in clause (c) and such classes of financial
institutions as may be notified by the Central Government in the Official
Gazette in this behalf may contribute one crore of rupees.(3)If the aggregate
of the contributions made by the institutions referred to in clause (d) of
sub-section (2) exceeds one crore of rupees, the Board shall refund the excess
amount to such institutions, so however, that the amount to be refunded to
each such institution bears, as far as possible, the same proportion to the
contribution made by it as the excess amount bears to the aggregate of the
contributions made by such institutions.(4)If the aggregate of the
contributions made by the institutions referred to in clause (d) of sub-
section (2) is less than one crore of rupees, the Reserve Bank shall
contribute the deficiency within thirty days of the date specified under sub-
section (2):Provided that the Reserve Bank may, thereafter, transfer the whole
or any part of its contribution under this sub-section to any institution
referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (2).(5)If at any time the Board is of
opinion that the amount of the initial capital is in excess of the
requirements of the Trust, [the Board may, and if the Central Government being
of like opinion so directs, the Board shall, refund the whole or as the case
may be so much of such capital as is in excess of its requirements]
[Substituted by Act 63 of 1985, Section 3 (w.e.f. 23.4.1986)] to [any
contributing institution, and in making any such refund the Board shall not
make any discrimination between the institutions referred to in clause (c) of
sub-section (2) or between the institutions referred to in clause (d) of that
sub-section] [Substituted by Act 17 of 1966, Section 3, for "the contributing
institutions" (w.e.f. 10-6-1966)]:Provided that where only a part is so
refunded the amount to be refunded to each such institution shall bear, as far
as possible, the same proportion to the contribution made by it as such part
bears to the initial capital:Provided further that for the purpose of any
refund, the value of the initial capital shall be determined by the Board on
such basis as the Central Government may specify in this behalf, regard being
had to the real or exchangeable value thereof.

### 4A. [ Transfer of initial capital to Development Bank. [Inserted by Act 52
of 1975, Section 46 (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)]

On such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint (hereinafter referred to as the notified date), all the
contributions made by the Reserve Bank to the initial capital of the Trust, as
on the date immediately preceding the notified date, shall, stand transferred
to, and vested in, the Development Bank.

### 4B. Payment of amount.

The Reserve Bank shall be given by the Development Bank, in cash, for the
transfer to, and vesting in, the Development Bank of the contributions made to
the initial capital of the Trust by the Reserve Bank, an amount equal to the
contributions to the initial capital so transferred.]

### 5. Maintenance of register of contributories.

The Board shall maintain in such manner as may be prescribed a register
containing the names of the contributing institutions, the amount contributed
by each such institution and such other particulars as may be prescribed.

### 6. Issue of contribution certificates.

(1)As soon as may be after the contribution has been made by any contributing
institution under section 4, the Board shall issue to such contributing
institution a contribution certificate or contribution certificates in such
form and containing such particulars as may be prescribed.(2)Where the whole
or any part of the contribution has been refunded to any institution under
sub-section (5) of section 4, that institution shall, as soon as may be after
the refund has been made, forward the contribution certificate or certificates
to the Board for cancellation or amendment, as the case may be, and the Board
shall cancel or amend the certificate or certificates accordingly.

### 7. Right of transfer of contribution certificates in certain cases.

(1)Any contributing institution referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (2)
of section 4 may, in the prescribed manner, transfer a contribution
certificate to any other institution referred to in that clause and thereupon
such other institution shall be deemed to be a contributing institution for
the purposes of this Act.(2)Save as provided in sub-section (1), a
contribution certificate shall not be transferred.

### 8. Rights and liabilities of holders of contribution certificates.

Every holder of a contribution certificate shall have all the rights and be
subject to all the liabilities conferred or imposed on a contributing
institution by or under this Act.

## Chapter III  
Management Of The Trust

### 9. Management.

(1)The general superintendence, direction and management of the affairs and
business of the Trust shall vest in a Board of trustees which may exercise all
powers and do all acts and things which may be exercised or done by the
Trust.(2)The Board shall, in discharging its functions under this Act, act on
business principles, regard being had to the interest of the unit holders.

### 10. Board of trustees.

The Board of trustees shall consist of the following, namely:-(a)the Chairman
to be appointed by the [Central Government in consultation with the
Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 47, for "Reserve
Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)];(aa)[one trustee to be nominated by the Reserve
Bank;] [Inserted by act 52 of 1975 s. 47, (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)](b)four trustees
to be nominated by the [Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975,
Section 47, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)], of whom not less than
three shall be persons having special knowledge of, or experience in,
commerce, industry, banking, finance or investment;(c)one trustee to be
nominated by the Life Insurance Corporation;(d)one trustee to be nominated by
the State Bank;(e)two trustees to be elected in the prescribed manner by the
contributing institutions referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (2) of
section 4; and(f)an executive trustee to be appointed by the [Development
Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 47, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f.
16-2-1976)]:Provided that if the appointment of the Chairman is whole-time, it
shall not be necessary to appoint an executive trustee:Provided further that
on the first constitution of the Board, the trustees referred to in clause (e)
shall be nominated by the Reserve Bank and shall hold office for a period of
twelve months from the date of their nomination or until two trustees are
elected under the said clause, whichever may be earlier.

### 10A. [ Transitional provision for continuance of Chairman and certain
trustees of the Board. [Inserted by Act 52 of 1975 s. 48, (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)]

Every person holding office, immediately before the notified date, as Chairman
under clause (a) of section 10 or as trustee, not being an officer of the
Reserve Bank, nominated under clause (b) of that section or as executive
trustee appointed under clause (f) thereof shall, notwithstanding the
amendment of this Act by the Public Financial Institutions Laws (Amendment)
Act, 1975 (52 of 1975), continue, subject to the same conditions, to hold
office for the unexpired portion of his term.]

### 11. Term of office of trustees.

(1)A trustee nominated [under clause (aa) or] [Inserted by Act 52 of 1975 s.
49, (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)] under clause (b) of section 10, if he is an officer of
the Reserve Bank [or the Development Bank] [Inserted by Act 52 of 1975 s. 49,
(w.e.f. 16-2-1976)], or a trustee nominated under clause (c) or clause (d) of
that section shall hold office during the pleasure of the authority nominating
him.(2)A trustee nominated under clause (b) of section 10, if he is not an
officer of the Reserve Bank [or the Development Bank] [Inserted by Act 52 of
1975 s. 49, (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)], or a trustee elected under clause (e) of that
section shall hold office for four years and thereafter until his successor is
duly nominated or elected.(3)A casual vacancy in the office of a trustee
referred to in sub-section (2) or in the office of a trustee nominated under
the second proviso to section 10 shall be filled by election or nomination, as
the case may be, and the trustee so elected or nominated shall hold office for
the unexpired portion of the term of his predecessor:Provided that no such
vacancy occurring within three months of the date of the expiry of the normal
term of office of such trustee need be filled under this sub-section.(4)A
trustee nominated under the second proviso to section 10 or a trustee
nominated in his place under sub-section (3) of this section shall be deemed
to be a trustee elected under clause (e) of section 10.(5)A person who holds,
or who has held, office as a trustee shall, subject to the other provisions of
this Act, be eligible for re-nomination or re-election, as the case may be.

### 12. Disqualification for being a trustee.

A person shall not be capable of being nominated or elected as a trustee
if-(a)he is, except in the case of the Chairman or the executive trustee, an
officer or other employee of the Trust; or(b)he is, or at any time has been,
adjudicated as insolvent or has suspended payment of his debts or has
compounded with his creditors; or(c)he is of unsound mind and stands so
declared by a competent court; or(d)he has been convicted of an offence which,
in the opinion of the [Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975,
Section 50, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)], involves moral turpitude.

### 13. Vacation and resignation of office of trustee.

(1)If a trustee--(a)becomes subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned
in section 12; or(b)is absent without leave of the Board from more than three
consecutive meetings thereof; or(c)being a trustee elected or deemed to be
elected under clause (e) of section 10 becomes an officer or other employee of
Government or of the Reserve Bank [or of the Development Bank] [Inserted by
act 52 of 1975, Section 51, (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)], State Bank, a subsidiary bank
or the Trust, his office shall thereupon become vacant.(2)A trustee nominated
under clause (b) of section 10 who is not an officer of the Reserve Bank [or
of the Development Bank] [Inserted by act 52 of 1975, Section 51, (w.e.f.
16-2-1976)]or a trustee elected or deemed to be elected under clause (e) of
that section may by letter addressed to the Board resign his office and on
such resignation being accepted by the Board shall be deemed to have vacated
his office.

### 14. Chairman and executive trustee.

(1)The appointment of a Chairman or of an executive trustee may be either
whole-time or part-time:Provided that if the appointment of the Chairman is
part-time, the appointment of the executive trustee shall be whole-time.(2)The
Chairman or the executive trustee shall-(a)hold office for such term not
exceeding five years as the [Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975,
Section 52, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)] may specify [and shall be
eligible for re-appointment] [Inserted by Act 16 of 1975, Section 4 (with
retrospective effect)];(b)receive such salary or allowances or both from the
Trust and be governed by such terms and conditions of service as the
[Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 52, for "Reserve
Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)] may determine; and(c)perform such functions as the
Board may entrust or delegate to him.

### 14A. [ Emergency powers of the whole-time Chairman. [Inserted by Act 63 of
1985, Section 4 (w.e.f. 23.4.1986)]

If the Chairman, whose appointment is whole-time, is of opinion that
circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action
in respect of any matter which is within the competence of the Board and that
the interests of the Trust may be prejudicially affected if such action is
deferred until after the next meeting of the Board, then, notwithstanding
anything contained in clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 14, the
Chairman may take such action in respect of that matter as he deems necessary
and for such purpose, he may exercise all powers and do all acts and things
which may be exercised or done by the Board, but in every such case, he shall,
as soon as may be after the action is taken, make a written report to the
Board containing a statement of the action taken and the circumstances under
which it was taken.]

### 15. Casual vacancy in office of chairman or executive trustee.

If the Chairman or the executive trustee is by infirmity or otherwise rendered
incapable of carrying out his duties or is absent on leave or otherwise, in
circumstances not involving the vacation of his appointment, the [Development
Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 52, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f.
16-2-1976)] may nominate another person to act in his place until the date on
which the Chairman or the executive trustee, as the case may be, resumes his
duties.

### 16. Fees and allowances of certain trustees.

Trustees, other than the Chairman and the executive trustee, shall be paid
such fees and allowances for attending the meetings of the Board or of any of
its committees and for attending to any other work of the Trust, as may be
prescribed:Provided that no fees shall be payable to a trustee who is an
officer of Government or of any corporation established by any law for the
time being in force.

### 17. Meetings of Board.

(1)The Board shall meet not less than six times a year and at least once every
two months and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the
transaction of business at its meetings as may be prescribed.(2)The Chairman,
or, if for any reason he is unable to attend any meeting of the Board, any
other trustee nominated by him in this behalf or, in the event of such
nominated trustee also being unable to attend the meeting or no such
nomination having been made by the Chairman, any other trustee elected by the
trustees present at the meeting from among themselves, shall preside at the
meeting.(3)All questions which come up before any meeting of the Board shall
be decided by a majority of votes of the trustees present and voting, and, in
the event of equality of votes, the Chairman or, in his absence, the person
presiding, shall have a second or casting vote.

### 18. Executive Committee and other committees.

(1)There shall be an Executive Committee which shall consist of-(a)the
Chairman of the Board,(b)where an executive trustee has been appointed by the
[Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 52, for "Reserve
Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)], such executive trustee, and(c)two other trustees
nominated in this behalf by the [Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of
1975, Section 52, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)].(2)The Chairman of
the Board shall be the Chairman of the Executive Committee.(3)Subject to such
general or special directions as the Board may, from time to time, give the
Executive Committee shall be competent to deal with any matter within the
competence of the Board.(4)The Board may constitute such other committees
whether consisting wholly of trustees or wholly of other persons or partly of
trustees and partly of other persons or partly of trustees and partly of other
persons as it thinks fit and for such purpose as it may decide.(5)The
Executive Committee or any other committee constituted under this section
shall meet at such times and places and shall observe such rules of procedure
in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings as may be
prescribed.(6)The members of a committee (other than the trustees) shall be
paid such fees and allowances for attending its meetings and for attending to
any other work of the Trust, as may be prescribed:Provided that no fees shall
be payable to a member who is an officer of Government or of any corporation
established by any law for the time being in force.

## Chapter IV  
Powers And Functions Of The Trust

### 19. [ Business of Trust. [Substituted by Act 63 of 1985, Section 5 (w.e.f.
23.4.1986).]

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and the regulations made under
section 43, the Trust may carry on and transact any of the following kinds of
business in India, namely:- (1) selling and purchasing units;(2)investing in,
and acquiring, holding or disposing of, securities and exercising and
enforcing, all powers and rights incidental thereto including protection or
realisation of such investment and the taking over of the administration of
any property offered as security for such investment;(3)granting of loans and
advances upon the security of any movable or immovable property or
otherwise;(4)accepting, collecting, discounting, rediscounting, purchasing,
selling or negotiating or otherwise dealing with, any bills of exchange,
hundies, promissory notes, coupons, drafts, bills of lading, railway receipts,
warehouse receipts, documents of title to goods, warrants, certificates,
scrips and other mercantile instruments;(5)purchasing, selling or issuing
participation certificates in relation to any loan or advance granted by any
public financial institution or scheduled bank or such other institution as
may be prescribed;(6)keeping money on deposit with companies or other bodies
corporate, scheduled banks or such other institutions as may be
prescribed;(7)investing in any special paper or security floated by the
Central Government or the Reserve Bank or by any such foreign government or
foreign bank as may be prescribed;(8)formulating in relation to any unit
scheme,-(a)savings and life insurance plan or plans under which a person may
acquire an interest in units in association with or as the agent of, the Life
Insurance Corporation or the Central Government, but not including the life
insurance business;(b)savings and insurance plan or plans under which a person
may acquire an interest in units in association with or as the agent of, the
General Insurance Corporation but not including the general insurance
business; or(c)any other plan or plans, under which a persons may acquire an
interest in units;(9)acquiring immovable property or any interest therein, the
development (including construction) and sale of such property and the
rendering of financial and other assistance to any person for the acquisition
of any immovable property or any interest therein and for the development
(including construction) of such property;(10)providing leasing and hire
purchase finance to persons, companies, and other bodies
corporate;(11)providing merchant banking and investment advisory
services;(12)extending investment or fund or portfolio management services to
persons resident outside India;(13)opening of an account or the making of an
agency arrangement with a bank incorporated outside India;(14)buying or
selling of, or entering into such other dealings in, foreign exchange, as may
be necessary for the discharge of its functions;(15)doing any other kind of
business connected with mobilisation of savings or investments which the
Central Government may authorise;(16)generally, doing all such acts and things
as may be incidental to or consequential upon the discharge of its functions
under this Act.Explanation.--For the purposes of clause (12) and clause (14),
the expressions "persons resident outside India" and "foreign exchange" shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in section 2 of the Foreign
Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973).(2)Subject to the provisions of
this Act and the regulations made under section 43, the Trust may carry on
outside India also any of the kinds of business mentioned in clauses (1), (2),
(4), (6), (7), sub-clause (c) of clause (8) and clauses (11), (12), (13) and
(15) of sub-section (1).]

### 19A. [ Power to impose conditions, etc. [Inserted by Act 52 of 1975,
Section 53 (w.e.f 16-2-1976)]

(1)In entering into any arrangement, under section 19, with any concern, the
Trust may impose such conditions as it may think necessary or expedient for
protecting the interest of the Trust and for securing that the accommodation
granted by it is put to the best use by the industrial concern.(2)Where any
arrangement entered into by the Trust under section 19 with any concern
provides for the appointment by the Trust of one or more directors of such
concern, such provision and any appointment of directors made in pursuance
thereof shall be valid and effective notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in the Companies Act, 1956, (1 of 1956.) or in any other law for the
time being in force or in the memorandum, articles of association or anyother
instrument relating to the concern, and any provision regarding share
qualification, age limit, number of directorships, removal from office of
directors and such like conditions contained in any such law or instrument
aforesaid, shall not apply to any director appointed by the Trust in pursuance
of the arrangement as aforesaid.(3)Any director appointed as aforesaid
shall,-(a)hold office during the pleasure of the Trust and may be removed or
substituted by any person by order in writing by the Trust;(b)not incur any
obligation or liability by reason only of his being a director or for anything
done or omitted to be done in good faith in the discharge of his duties as a
director or anything in relation thereto;(c)not be liable to retirement by
rotation and shall not be taken into account for computing the number of
directors liable to such retirement.]

### 19B. [ Special provision for enforcement of claim by the Trust. [Inserted
by Act 63 of 1985, s.6 (w.e.f. 23.4.1986)]

(1)Where a company or other body corporate, in breach of any agreement, makes
any default in repayment of any loan or advance or any instalment thereof, or
in meeting its obligations or otherwise fails to comply with the terms of its
agreement with the Trust, then, without prejudice to the provisions of section
69 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), any officer of the Trust
generally or specially authorised by the Trust in this behalf may apply to the
Court for one or more of the following reliefs, namely:-(a)for an order for
the sale of the property pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to the
Trust as security for the loan or advance, or(b)for transferring the
management of the company or other body corporate to the Trust, or(c)for ad
interim injunction where there is apprehension of the machinery or the
equipment being removed from the premises of the company or other body
corporate without the permission of the Trust.(2)An application under sub-
section (1) shall state the nature and extent of the liability of the company
or other body corporate to the Trust, the grounds on which it is made and such
other particulars as may be prescribed.(3)When the application is for the
reliefs mentioned in sub-clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (1) the Court
shall pass an ad interim order attaching the security or so much of the
property of the company or other body corporate as would on being sold realise
in its estimation an amount equivalent in value to the outstanding liability
of the company or other body corporate to the Trust together with the costs of
the proceedings taken under this section with or without an ad interim
injunction restraining the company or other body corporate from transferring
or removing its machinery or equipment.(4)Where the application is for the
relief mentioned in sub-clause (b) of sub-section (1) the Court shall grant an
ad interim injunction restraining the company or other body corporate from
transferring or removing its machinery or equipment and issue a notice calling
upon the company or other body corporate to show cause on a date to be
specified in the notice why the management of the company or other body
corporate should not be transferred to the Trust.(5)Before passing any order
under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4), the Court may, if it thinks fit,
examine the officer making the application.(6)At the same time as it passes an
order under sub-section (3), the Court shall issue to the company or other
body corporate a notice accompanied by copies of the order, the application
and the evidence, if any, recorded by it calling upon the company or other
body corporate to show cause on a date to be specified in the notice why the
ad interim order of attachment should not be made absolute or the injunction
confirmed.(7)If no cause is shown on or before the date specified in the
notice under sub-sections (4) and (6), the Court shall forthwith make the ad
interim order absolute and direct the sale of the attached property or
transfer the management of the company or other body corporate to the Trust or
confirm the injunction.(8)If cause is shown the Court shall proceed to
investigate the claim of the Trust and the provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall as far as practicable apply to such
proceedings.(9)On an investigation made under sub-section (8) the Court shall
pass an order-(a)confirming the order of attachment and directing the sale of
the attached property; or(b)varying the order of attachment so as to release a
portion of the property from attachment and directing the sale of the
remainder of the attached property; or(c)releasing the property from
attachment, if it is satisfied that it is not necessary in the interests of
the Trust; or(d)confirming or vacating the injunction; or(e)transferring the
management of the company or other body corporate to the Trust or rejecting
the claim made in this behalf:Provided that when making any order under clause
(c), the Court may make such further orders as it thinks necessary to protect
the interests of the Trust, and may apportion the costs of the proceedings in
such manner as it thinks fit:Provided further that unless the Trust intimates
to the Court that it will not appeal against any order releasing any property
from attachment, such order shall not be given effect to until the expiry of
the period fixed under sub-section (12) within which an appeal may be
preferred, or if an appeal is preferred, unless the Court empowered to hear
appeals from the decisions of the said Court otherwise directs until the
appeal is disposed of.(10)An order of attachment or sale of property under
this section shall be carried into effect as far as may be practicable in the
manner provided in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), for the
attachment or sale of property in execution of a decree, as if the Trust were
the decree-holder.(11)An order under this section transferring the management
of a company or other body corporate to the Trust shall be carried into
effect, as far as may be practicable, in the manner provided in the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), for the possession of immovable property or
the delivery of movable property in execution of a decree, as if the Trust
were the decree-holder.(12)Any party aggrieved by an order under sub-section
(7) or sub-section (9) may, within thirty days from the date of the order,
appeal to the Court empowered to hear appeals from the decisions of the Court
which passed the order and the appellate court may after hearing the parties
pass such orders as it thinks proper.(13)Nothing in this section shall be
construed, where proceedings for liquidation in respect of the company or
other body corporate have commenced before an application is made under sub-
section (1) as giving to the Trust any preference over the other creditors of
the company or other body corporate not conferred on it by any other
law.(14)For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any Court
competent to grant an ad interim injunction under this section shall also have
the power to appoint a receiver and to exercise all other powers incidental
thereto.(15)For the purpose of this section "Court" means the High Court
within the local limits of whose jurisdiction,-(i)the defendant or respondent,
or where there is more than one defendant or respondent any one of them-(1)has
his registered office; or(2)carries on the whole or part of his business, at
the time of the commencement of any legal proceedings, against him under this
Act; or(ii)the cause of action for such legal proceedings, wholly or in part,
arises.(16)The provisions of this section shall not apply to or in relation to
any proceedings (whether by way of suits or appeals or other proceedings)
under this Act pending before a District Judge or an Additional District Judge
or a High Court at the commencement of the Unit Trust of India (Amendment)
Act, 1985.]

### 20. Borrowing powers.

(1)[The Trust may borrow, whether in India or outside India] [Substituted by
Act 63 of 1985, Section 7, (w.e.f. 23.4.1986)] from any authority or person,
not being Government or the Reserve Bank, against such security and on such
terms and conditions as may be agreed upon.(2)[ The Trust may borrow money
from the Reserve Bank-(i)repayable on demand or on the expiry of a fixed
period not exceeding ninety days from the date on which the money is so
borrowed, against stocks, funds and securities (other than immovable property)
in which a trustee is authorised to invest trust money by any law for the time
being in force in India;(ii)repayable on demand or within a period of eighteen
months from the date on which the money is so borrowed, against the security
of the bonds which the Trust may issue with the approval of the Central
Government;(iii)on such terms and conditions and against the security of such
other property of the Trust as may be specified in this behalf by the Reserve
Bank for the purposes of any scheme other than the first unit scheme:Provided
that any amount borrowed under this clause and outstanding at any one time
shall not exceed-(a)five crores of rupees in respect of each such scheme;
and(b)ten crores of rupees in respect of all such schemes in the
aggregate.(3)The bonds issued by the Trust under sub-section (2) shall be
guaranteed by the Central Government as to the repayment of principal and the
payment of interest at such rate as may be fixed by the Central Government at
the time the bonds are issued.] [Substituted by Act 17 of 1966, Section 5, for
sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) (w.e.f. 10-6-1966)]

### 20A. [ Special contribution by Reserve Bank. [Inserted by Act 17 of 1966,
Section 6 (w.e.f. 10-6-1966).]

[The Reserve Bank or the Development Bank may], from time to time, in its
discretion pay to the Trust from out of the amount [payable to the Reserve
Bank or, as the case may be, the Development Bank] [ Substituted by Act 52 of
1975, Section 54, for certain words.] under sub-section (1) of section 25A any
sum to be utilised by the Trust solely for meeting the losses arising out of,
or any additional amount required in connection with, any variation made by
the Trust in the sale or re-purchase price of a unit.

### 20B. Grants, donations, etc.

, to Trust. The Trust may receive gifts, grants, donations or benefactions
from Government or any other source and such gifts, grants, donations or
benefactions shall be treated by the Board as capital or income of the first
unit scheme or, as the case may be, of any subsequent unit scheme according to
the purposes for which they are made and in the absence of any indication of
such purposes, they shall be treated as capital or income of such unit scheme
or schemes and to such extent as the Board thinks fit.]

### 20C. [ Power to transfer rights. [Inserted by Act 63 of 1985, Section 8
(w.e.f. 23-4-1986).]

The rights and interests of the Trust (including any other rights incidental
thereto) in relation to any loan or advance granted, or any amount
recoverable, by it may be transferred by the Trust, either in whole or in
part, by the execution or issue of any instrument, or by the transfer of any
instrument by endorsement or in any other manner in which the rights and
interests in relation to such loan or advance may be lawfully transferred, and
the Trust may, notwithstanding such transfer, act as the trustee within the
meaning of section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of 1882), for the
transferee.]

### 21. Unit schemes.

(1)For the purpose of providing facilities for participation in the income,
profits and gains arising out of the acquisition, holding, management or
disposal of securities by the Trust, the Board [may make one or more [unit
schemes, including one or more unit schemes for issuing units to persons
resident outside India in such foreign currencies, as the Trust may deem fit.]
[Substituted by Act 17 of 1966, Section 7, for "shall make a unit
scheme"(w.e.f. 10-6-1966). ](2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the
regulations made under section 43, a scheme made under sub-section (1) may
provide for-(a)[ the issue of units and the face value of each unit;
[Substituted by 63 of 1985, Section 9 (w.e.f. 23.4.1986).]Provided that the
face value of each unit shall, where such value is in Indian currency, be not
less than ten rupees or more than one hundred rupees and where such value is
in any foreign currency, be in multiples of ten;](b)the form and manner in
which an application may be made for the purchase of a unit from the
Trust;(c)the manner in which payment may be made for purchasing a unit from
the Trust;(d)the issue of unit certificates and the form and manner in which
such certificates may be issued;(e)the issue of duplicate of any unit
certificate in the event of loss or destruction of the original and the fee on
the payment of which such duplicate may be issued;(f)the procedure for
determining the value at which the units may be sold or purchased, from time
to time, by the Trust;(g)the recognition of persons as unit holders;(ga)[the
application for, and the holding of, or dealing with, units by any parent of a
minor;] [Inserted by Act 16 of 1975, Section 5 (w.e.f. 29-3-1975)](h)the
persons to whom, the time at which and the manner in which any payments in
respect of a unit shall be made by the Trust;(i)the preparation and
maintenance of a register, if any, of unit holders;(j)the conditions, if any,
subject to which a unit holder may transfer the unit;(k)any other matter which
the Trust may consider to be necessary or proper for the effective
implementation of the scheme.(2A)[ Where any parent of a minor holds, deals
with or makes any application for the purchase of a unit on behalf of the
minor, the provisions of the scheme, in pursuance of which the unit had been
issued, shall be binding on the minor.(2B)Where the payment of any sum becomes
due on, or in respect of, any unit held on behalf of a minor, such payment
shall, subject to the provisions of the scheme, be made to the parent by whom
the purchase of such unit was applied for or by whom suchunit was acquired, as
the case may be, and such parent shall be entitled to receive such payment for
and on behalf of the minor; and in the event of the death of the said parent,
such payment shall be made to the lawful guardian of the minor.Explanation.--
References in this section to "parent" shall be construed as including
references to step-parent.] [Inserted by Act 16 of 1975, Section 5 (w.e.f.
29-3-1975)](3)The Board may, from time to time, add to or otherwise amend [any
scheme] [Substituted by Act 17 of 1966, Section 7, for "the scheme" (w.e.f.
10-6-1966)] made under sub-section (1).(4)[Every scheme] [Substituted by
Section 7, ibid., for "The scheme" (w.e.f. 10-6-1966)] made under sub-section
(1) and every amendment thereof under sub-section (3) shall be notified in the
Official Gazette.[CHAPTER V [Substituted by act 17 of 1966 s. 8, for former
Chapter V (sections 22 to 25) (w.e.f. 10-6-1966)] Allocation And Distribution
Of Income And Reserve Funds

### 22. Capital of the Trust.

(1)The capital of the Trust in relation to the first unit scheme shall consist
of-(i)the initial capital,(ii)the unit capital of the said scheme,(iii)any
reserves created for that scheme,(iv)any amount borrowed for the purposes of
that scheme,(v)any amount received for the purposes of that scheme by way of
gifts, grants, donations or benefactions from the Government or any other
source and treated as the capital of that scheme under section 20B,(vi)any
other capital allocated to that scheme by the Board having regard to the
nature of such capital and other relevant factors.(2)The capital of the Trust
in relation to any subsequent unit scheme shall consist of-(i)the unit capital
of that scheme,(ii)any reserves created for that scheme.(iii)any amount
borrowed for the purposes of that scheme,(iv)any amount received for the
purposes of that scheme by way of gifts, grants, donations or benefactions
from the Government or any other source and treated as the capital of that
scheme under section 20B,(v)any other capital allocated to that scheme by the
Board having regard to the nature of such capital and other relevant
factors.(3)The capital in respect of a unit scheme shall be held separately
from the capital in respect of any other unit scheme and such capital shall,
subject to the provisions of this Chapter, be applied solely for the purposes
of that unit scheme.

### 23. Income of the Trust.

The income of the Trust shall consist of-(i)in relation to the first unit
scheme,-(a)the income arising out of the capital referred to in sub-section
(1) of section 22, (b) any gifts, grants, donations or benefactions treated as
the income of that scheme under section 20B, and(c)any other income allocated
to that scheme by the Board having regard to the nature of the income and
other relevant factors;(ii)in relation to any subsequent unit scheme,-(a)the
income arising out of the capital referred to in sub-section (2) of section
22, (b) any gifts, grants, donations or benefactions treated as the income of
that scheme under section 20B, and(c)any other income allocated to that scheme
by the Board having regard to the nature of the income and other relevant
factors.

### 24. Allocation of income in respect of first unit scheme.

The income of the Trust in any year arising out of the capital of the Trust
relating to the first unit scheme shall be allocated to the initial capital
and the unit capital thereof in the same proportion as the former bears to the
latter at the end of that year.

### 25. Allocation of interest and other expenses.

(1)The interest payable for any year for any borrowings by the Trust and the
total amount of other expenses incurred by the Trust for that year for the
purposes of the first unit scheme shall be allocated and charged to the
initial capital and the unit capital thereof in the same proportion as is
referred to in section 24.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1), if in any year the amount of expenses, other than interest allocated to
the unit capital relating to the first unit scheme, is more than five per
cent. of the income allocated in that year to that scheme, only an amount
equal to such five per cent. shall be charged to that unit capital and the
rest of the total amount of expenses other than interest shall be charged to
the initial capital.(3)The interest payable for any year for any borrowings by
the Trust and the total amount of other expenses incurred by the Trust in that
year for the purposes of any subsequent unit scheme shall be charged to the
unit capital of such scheme in such manner and to such extent as the Board
may, with the previous approval of the [Development Bank] [Substituted by Act
52 of 1975, Section 52, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)],
determine.(4)For purposes of this section, where expenses are incurred in
common by the Trust in relation to more than one unit scheme such expenses may
be allocated to the different schemes to such extent and in such manner as the
Board may, with the previous approval of the [Development Bank] [Substituted
by Act 52 of 1975, Section 52, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)],
determine having regard to the nature and purposes of the expenses and other
relevant factors.

### 25A. Distribution of income.

(1)The income allocated to the initial capital in any year reduced by the
interest and the amount of other expenses charged for that year to the initial
capital may be distributed in the prescribed manner among the contributing
institutions in each case in proportion to their respective
contributions.(2)The income allocated in any year to the unit capital relating
to the first unit scheme reduced by the interest and the amount of other
expenses charged for that year to such unit capital may, but not less than
ninety per cent. of such income so reduced, shall, be distributed in respect
of that year to the unit holders under that unit scheme:[Provided that in
relation to any year in which the Trust has declared a dividend of not less
than ten per cent. on the unit capital the requirement as to distribution of
not less than ninety per cent. of such income in such year as so reduced shall
not apply.] [Added by Act 63 of 1985, Section 10 (w.e.f. 23-4-1986).
160A](3)The income allocated in any year to the unit capital relating to each
of the subsequent unit schemes reduced by the interest and the amount of other
expenses charged for that year to such unit capital may, having regard to the
purposes of that scheme and other relevant factors,-(i)be distributed in
respect of that year to the unit holders under that scheme in such manner and
at such percentage of the income so reduced as the Board may determine;
or(ii)be carried forward and re-invested or otherwise utilised for the benefit
of the unit holders in accordance with the provisions of that scheme.

### 25B. Reserve funds.

(1)The Trust may establish one or more reserve funds by transferring such sums
as it may deem fit out of the amount of the income of the Trust not
distributed to the contributing institutions or unit holders under the
provisions of this Chapter.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
amount in any reserve fund created specifically for the purposes of any unit
scheme shall be applied or utilised only for the benefit of the unit holders
under that unit scheme and for such purposes and in such manner as the Board
may determine.

### 25C. Definition.

In this Chapter, "year" means the period in respect of which the books and
accounts of the Trust are balanced and closed under sub-section (2) of section
26.]

## Chapter VI  
Accounts And Audit

### 26. Preparation of balance sheet, etc., of Trust.

(1)The balance-sheet and accounts of the Trust shall be prepared and
maintained in such form and manner as may be prescribed.(2)The Board shall
cause the books and accounts of the Trust to be balanced and closed each year
as on such date as may be prescribed. 160B

### 27. Audit.

[(1) The affairs of the Trust shall be audited by one or more auditors duly
qualified to act as auditor under sub-section (1) of section 226 of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), (hereinafter referred to as the auditor) who
shall be appointed by the Trust with the previous approval of the [Development
Bank] [Substituted by Act 17 of 1966, Section 9, for "former sub-section (1)"
(w.e.f. 10-6-1966)] and shall receive such remuneration as the Trust may
fix.](2)The auditor shall be supplied with a copy of the annual balance-sheet
of the Trust and it shall be his duty to examine it together with the accounts
and vouchers relating thereto and he shall have a list delivered to him of all
books kept by the Trust and shall at all reasonable times have access to the
books, accounts, vouchers and other documents of the Trust.(3)The auditor may,
in relation to such accounts, examine any trustee or any officer or other
employee of the Trust and shall be entitled to require from the Board or
officers or other employees of the Trust such information an Explanation as he
may think necessary for the performance of his duties.(4)The auditor shall
make a report to the Trust upon the annual balance-sheet and accounts examined
by him and in every such report he shall state whether in his opinion the
balance-sheet is a full and fair balance-sheet containing all necessary
particulars and properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Trust and in case he had called for any information or
explanation from the Board or any officer or other employee of the Trust,
whether it has been given and whether it is satisfactory.

### 28. Publication of annual accounts and reports.

The Trust shall furnish to each of the contributing institutions within four
months from the date on which its accounts are balanced and closed in respect
of any year a copy of the balance-sheet and accounts together with a copy of
the auditor's report and shall publish the same in the Official Gazette.

### 29. [ Furnishing of information. [Substituted by act 52 of 1975, Section
55, for s. 29 (w.e.f. 16-2-1976).]

The Reserve Bank or the Development Bank may, from time to time, call upon the
Trust to furnish such information as either of the said banks may require, and
the Trust shall be bound to furnish the same.]

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 30. Power of [Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section
52, for "Reserve Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)] to give directions.

In the discharge of its functions under this Act, the Trust shall be guided by
such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as the
[Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 52, for "Reserve
Bank" (w.e.f. 16-2-1976)] may give to it in writing, and if any question
arises whether the direction relates to a matter of policy involving public
interest, the decision of the Reserve Bank thereon shall be final.

### 31. Staff of Trust.

(1)The Trust may appoint such number of officers and other employees as it
considers necessary or desirable for the efficient performance of its
functions and determine the terms and conditions of their appointment and
service.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), it shall be
lawful for the Trust to utilise, and for the Reserve Bank to make available,
the services of such staff of the Reserve Bank on such terms and conditions as
may be agreed upon between the Trust and the Reserve Bank.(3)[ Every member of
the staff of the Reserve Bank(a)whose services are being, immediately before
the notified date, utilised by the Trust under sub-section (2), or(b)whose
services, having been made available to the Trust, stand, immediately before
the notified date, deputed by the Trust to any other organisation, shall, on
and from the notified date, be deemed to be appointed by the Trust under sub-
section (1) on the same salary, emoluments and other terms and conditions of
service to which he was entitled immediately before the notified date:Provided
that every member of the staff aforesaid may, before the expiry of a period of
eighteen months from the notified date, elect to go back to the Reserve Bank
by exercising an option in writing to that effect, the option once exercised
being final, and on the exercise of such option, the Reserve Bank shall,
before the expiration of a period of thirty months from the notified date,
take back such member of the staff and on such member being taken back by the
Reserve Bank, he shall become a member of the staff of the Reserve Bank and
shall cease to be a member of the staff of the Trust.(4)Notwithstanding
anything contained elsewhere in this Act or in any other law or in any
contract, for the time being in force, for a temporary period, not being a
period exceeding eighteen months from the notified date or the date of
commencement of section 5 of the Public Financial Institutions Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1975 (52 of 1975), whichever is earlier, if the Reserve Bank,
in consultation with the Trust or the Development Bank, considers it necessary
in the interests of the said institutions to promote any member of the staff
of any of the said institutions to a post in either of the other two
institutions, it shall be lawful for the Reserve Bank to transfer on promotion
any such member of the staff to that other institution, and on such transfer
each such member of the staff shall be deemed to be a member of the staff of
the institution to which he is so transferred and shall be entitled to the
same salary, emoluments and other terms and conditions of service to which he
was entitled immediately before the date of such transfer including benefits,
if any, arising directly out of such promotion:Provided that every member of
the staff aforesaid may, before the expiry of a period of eighteen months from
the notified date or the date of commencement of section 5 of the Public
Financial Institutions Laws (Amendment) Act, 1975 (52 of 1975), whichever is
earlier, elect to go back to the institution from which he was so transferred
by exercising an option in writing to that effect, the option once exercised
being final, and on the exercise of such option, that institution shall,
before the expiration of a period of thirty months from the notified date or
the date of commencement of section 5 of the Public Financial Institutions
Laws (Amendment) Act, 1975, whichever is earlier, take back such member of the
staff and on such member being taken back by that institution, he shall become
a member of its staff and shall cease to be a member of the staff of the
institution to which he was earlier transferred.(5)Notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law or in any agreement, for the time being in force,
no member of the staff shall be entitled to claim any compensation for, or in
relation to, any matter concerning, his transfer, appointment or, as the case
may be, return, under sub-sections (3) and (4), and no claim in respect
thereof, shall be entertained by any court, tribunal or other authority.]
[Inserted by Act 52 of 1975 s. 56, (w.e.f. 16-2-1976).]

### 32. Income-tax and other taxes.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in [the Wealth tax Act, 1957 (27 of
1957)] [Inserted by Act 16 of 1975, Section 6 (w.e.f. 1-4-1975)], the Income-
tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Super Profits Tax Act, 1963 (14 of 1963) [the
Companies (Profits) Surtax Act, 1964 (7 of 1964),] [Inserted by Act 17 of
1966, Section 10 (w.e.f. 1-4-1964, vide Act 20 of 1967, Section 45)] or in any
other enactment for the time being in force relating to income-tax, super-tax,
[super profits tax, surtax] [Substituted by Act 20 of 1967 s. 10, for "or
super profits tax"(w.e.f. 1-4-1964, vide Act 20 of 1967, Section 45)] or any
other tax on income, profits or gains-(a)the Trust shall not be liable to pay
income-tax, super-tax, super profits tax [, surtax] [Inserted by Act 17 of
1966, Section 10 (w.e.f. 1-4-1964, vide Act 20 of 1967, Section 45).] or any
other tax in respect of any income, profits or gains derived by it from any
source;(aa)[in the case of an assessee who is not resident in India, being, -
[Inserted by Act 3 of 1976, Section 2 (w.e.f. 24-1-1976)](i)an individual who
is an Indian or a person of Indian origin, or(ii)a Hindu undivided family,
there shall not be included in the total income of such assessee, for the
purposes of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), any income received by such
assessee in the previous year in respect of units acquired by such assessee
from the Trust, out of funds in a Non-resident (External) Account maintained
with any bank in India or by the remittance of funds in foreign exchange, in
accordance, in either case, with the provisions of the Foreign Exchange
Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973), or any rules or orders made
thereunder;](b)[* * * * *] [Omitted by Act 21 of 1984, Section 54 (w.e.f.
1-4-1985)][* * * * * ] [Explanation omitted by Act 3 of 1976, Section 2
(w.e.f. 24.1.1976).](ba)[* * * * *] [Omitted by Act 21 of 1984, Section 54
(w.e.f. 1-4-1985)][* * * * * ] [Explanation omitted by Act 3 of 1976, Section
2 (w.e.f. 24.1.1976).](bb)[in the case of an assessee who is not resident in
India, being, an individual who is an Indian or a person of Indian origin, or
a Hindu undivided family, wealth-tax shall not be payable by the assessee in
respect of, and there shall not be included in, the net wealth of the assessee
computed under the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957), the value of the assets
in the form of units acquired from the Trust, out of funds in a Non-resident
(External) Account maintained with any bank in India or by the remittance of
funds in foreign exchange, in accordance, in either case, with the provisions
of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973), or any rules or
orders made thereunder;] [Inserted by Section 2, ibid. (w.e.f.
24.1.1976).](c)where a contributing institution is liable to be assessed to
super profits tax under the Super Profits Tax Act, 1963 (14 of 1963), [or to
surtax under the Companies (Profits) Surtax Act, 1964 (7 of 1964),] [Inserted
by Act 17 of 1966, Section 10 (w.e.f. 1-4-1964, vide Act 20 of 1967, Section
45)] in respect of its own income, profits or gains and receives any sum from
the Trust under this Act in respect of its contribution to the initial
capital, such sum as reduced by the amount of any income-tax and super-tax
payable in respect thereof shall be excluded from the total income of the said
institution in computing its chargeable profits for the purposes of super
profits tax [or surtax] [Inserted by Act 17 of 1966, Section 10 (w.e.f.
1-4-1964, vide Act 20 of 1967, Section 45)][Explanation I. [Inserted by Act 3
of 1976, Section 2 (w.e.f. 24.1.1976)] \- In this sub-section(a)in [clause
(aa)] the expressions "previous year" and "total income" shall have the
meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of
1961);(b)in[clause (bb)] [Substituted by Act 21 of 1984, Section 54 (w.e.f.
1-4-1985)] the expressions "assessee" and "net wealth" shall have the
meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of
1957).Explanation II. - For the purposes of sub-sections (1) and (2),-(a)an
assessee shall be deemed to be "not resident in India" if he is a non-resident
within the meaning of clause (30) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43
of 1961);(b)a person shall be deemed to be a person of Indian origin if he or
either of his parents or any of his grand parents howsoever high in degree of
ascent, whether on the paternal side or on the maternal side, was born in
India, as defined in the Government of India Act, 1935, as originally
enacted.](2)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 193 or section 194
of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961),--(a)no deduction of income-tax or
super-tax shall be made on any interest or dividend payable to the Trust in
respect of any securities or shares owned by it or in which it has full
beneficial interest;[* * *] [Clauses (b) and (c) and proviso omitted by the
Finance Act 22 of 1995. Section 90][* * *] [Sub-section (3) omitted by Finance
Act 22 of 1995, Section 90]

### 33. Act 18 of 1891 to apply in relation to trust.

The Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891 shall apply in relation to the Trust as
if it were a bank as defined in section 2 of the said Act.

### 34. Declaration of fidelity and secrecy.

Every trustee, auditor, officer or other employee of the Trust or any employee
of the Reserve Bank whose services are utilised by the Trust under section 31
shall, before entering upon his duties, make a declaration of fidelity and
secrecy in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Act.

### 35. Defects in appointments not to invalidate acts, etc.

(1)No act or proceeding of the Board or of any committee of the Trust shall be
questioned on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or defect
in the constitution of, the Board or committee.(2)No act done by any person
acting in good faith as a trustee shall be deemed to be invalid merely on the
ground that he was disqualified to be a trustee or that there was any other
defect in his appointment.

### 36. Indemnity of trustees.

(1)Every trustee shall be indemnified by the Trust against all losses and
expenses incurred by him in, or in relation to, the discharge of his duties
except such as are caused by his own wilful act or default.(2)A trustee of the
Board shall not be responsible for any other trustee, or for any officer or
other employee of the Trust, or for any loss or expenses resulting to the
Trust, from the insufficiency or deficiency of value of or title to any
property or security acquired or taken on behalf of the Trust or the
insolvency or wrongful act of any debtor or any person under obligation to the
Trust or anything done in good faith in the execution of the duties of his
office or in relation thereto.

### 37. Protection of action taken under this Act.

No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Trust or [the Reserve
Bank or the Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 57, for
"the Reserve Bank"(w.e.f. 16-2-1976). 160J] or any trustee or any officer or
other employee of the Trust or [the Reserve Bank or the Development Bank]
[Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 57, for "the Reserve Bank"(w.e.f.
16-2-1976). 160J] or any other person authorised by the Trust to discharge any
functions under this Act for any damage caused or likely to be caused by
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act.

### 38. Delegation of powers.

The Board may, by general or special order, delegate to any officer of the
Trust, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as may be specified
in the order, such of its powers and duties under this Act as it may deem
necessary.

### 39. [ No trust to be taken notice of [Substituted by Act 16 of 1975,
Section 7, for s. 39 (w.e.f. 7-1-1975). 160K]

Except to the extent provided in, and except in accordance with the
regulations made under this Act, no notice of a trust, express, implied or
constructive, shall be receivable by the Trust.

### 39A. Nomination by unit holders and agents.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force,-(a)where a nomination in respect of any units has been made in
accordance with the regulations made under this Act, the amount payable to the
unit holder in respect of the said units shall, on the death of the unit
holder but subject to any right, title, claim or other interest of any other
person to or in respect of the said units as provided in such regulations, and
subject to any charge or encumbrance over the said units, vest in, and be
payable to, the nominee;(b)where any person appointed by the Trust as an agent
for soliciting or procuring any business, including the sale of units, has
nominated, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, any person
or a social or charitable institution, to receive the commission or other
remuneration payable to him after his death, such commission or other
remuneration shall, on the death of the person making the nomination, be
payable to his nominee:Provided that nothing contained in this section shall
affect any nomination made before the date on which the Trust Laws (Amendment)
Act, 1975 (16 of 1975), receives the assent of the President.(2)A payment by
the Trust under sub-section (1) shall be a full discharge to the Trust, from
all liability in respect of the units, or, as the case may be, the commission
or other remuneration.

### 39B. Protection of certain amounts from attachment.

Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the amount standing to the credit of a contributing institution shall
not be liable to attachment under any decree or order of any court in respect
of any debt or liability incurred by the contributing institutions.]

### 40. Repayment of contribution in case of winding up of contributing
institution.

(1)In the event of a contributing institution referred to in clause (d) of
sub-section (2) of section 4 being wound up, the Trust shall, on a demand in
that behalf made by the authority in charge of the winding up, pay to such
authority an amount equivalent to the value of the contribution to the initial
capital made by that institution.(2)The value of the contribution shall be
determined by the Board on such basis as the Central Government may specify,
regard being had to the real or exchangeable value of such contribution.

### 41. Power of Central Government to reconstitute Board.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 10 or section 11, where the
whole of the initial capital has been refunded to the contributing
institutions, the Central Government may, after consultation with the
[Development Bank] [Substituted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 52, for "Reserve
Bank"(w.e.f. 16-2-1976).] by order, provide for the reconstitution of the
Board.(2)An order made under sub-section (1) may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely;-(a)the number of trustees that will constitute the
Board;(b)the manner in which they shall be chosen,(c)their term of
office,(d)filling of casual vacancies;(e)such incidental, consequential and
supplementary matters as may be necessary to give effect to the order
including the reconstitution of the executive committee or other
committees.(3)Every order made under this section shall be published in the
Official Gazette and a copy thereof shall be laid before each House of
Parliament as soon as may be after it is made.

### 42. Liquidation of Trust.

(1)The Trust shall not be placed in liquidation save by order of the Central
Government and in such manner as it may direct.(2)In making such order, the
Central Government shall, if the initial capital has not been wholly refunded,
direct, among other things, that-(i)the value of the net assets of the Trust
after paying off all its liabilities, other than those in respect of the
initial capital and the unit capital shall be divided into two parts in the
same proportion as the aggregate face value(ii)the first part shall be
distributed among the contributing institutions in proportion to their
respective contributions to the initial capital as on that date and the second
part shall be distributed among the unit holders in proportion to the face
value of the units held by them as on that date.

### 43. Regulations.

(1)[The Board, with the previous approval of the Development Bank, may, by
notification in the Official Gazette,] [Substituted for the words "The Board
may with the previous approval of the Development Bank" by Act No 63. of 1985
section 11 w.w.f. 23.4.1986. ] make regulations not inconsistent with this Act
to provide for all matters for which provision is necessary or expedient for
the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular
and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
regulations may provide for-(a)the form and manner of maintenance of the
register of contributing institutions and the particulars to be contained
therein;(b)the face value of a contribution certificate, its form and the
particulars to be contained therein;(c)the manner of transfer of a
contribution certificate;(d)the rights and liabilities of a contributing
institution;(e)the holding and conduct of elections under this Act, including
the final decision on doubts or disputes regarding the validity of
elections.(f)the fees and allowances that may be paid to the trustees;(g)the
times and places of the meetings of the Board or of any committee constituted
under this Act and the procedure to be followed at such meetings including the
quorum necessary for the transaction of business;(h)the fees and allowances
that may be paid to the members of a committee, other than trustees;(i)[ the
institutions to which loans or advances may be granted or with which money may
be kept in deposit; [Substituted by Act 63 of 1985, Section 11 (w.e.f.
23.4.1986)](ia)special papers or securities floated by governments or banks in
which investment may be made;(ib)the particulars which may be included in an
application under section 19B;](j)the manner of distribution of income to the
contributing institutions;(k)the form and manner in which the balance-sheet
and the accounts of the Trust shall be prepared and maintained;(l)the date on
which the books of accounts of the Trust shall be balanced and closed each
year;(m)the duties and conduct, salaries and allowances, and other conditions
of service of officers and other employees of the Trust;(n)the establishment
and maintenance of provident or other benefit funds for officers and other
employees of the Trust; [* * *] [The word "and" omitted by Act 16 of 1975,
Section 8 (w.e.f. 7-1-1975)](nn)[the extent to which and the circumstances
under which nominations may be recognized and trust may be taken notice of;
and] [Inserted by act 16 of 1975 s. 8, (w.e.f. 7-1-1975)](o)any other matter
which is to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)Any regulation which may be made by
the Board under this Act may be made by the [Development Bank] [Substituted
for the words " Reserve Bank" by Act 52 of 1975, Section 52 (16-2-1976)]
within three months of the establishment of the Trust and any regulation so
made may be altered or rescinded by the Board in the exercise of its powers
under this Act.(4)[ Every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is
in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the regulation or
both Houses agree that the regulation should not be made, the regulation shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
regulation.] [Ins by Act 63 of 1985, Section 11 (w.e.f. 23.4.1986)]

### 44. Amendment of certain enactments.

\--[Rep. by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1974 (56 of 1974), s. 2 and Sch.
1.]

### 45. [ Power to remove difficulty [Inserted by Act 52 of 1975, Section 58
(w.e.f. 16-2-1976). 161-162]

If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provision of this Act, as
amended by the Public Financial Institutions Laws (Amendment) Act, 1975, (52
of 1975.) the Central Government may, by order, do anything, not inconsistent
with such provisions, for the purpose of removing the difficulty:Provided that
no such order shall be made after the expiration of three years from the date
of commencement of the said Amendment Act.]THE FIRST SCHEDULE.(See section
34)DECLARATION OF FIDELITY AND SECRECYI do hereby declare that I will
faithfully, truly and to the best of my skill and ability execute and perform
the duties required of me as trustee, auditor, officer or other employee (as
the case may be) of the Unit Trust of India and which properly relate to the
office or position held by me in the said Trust.I further declare that I will
not communicate or allow to be communicated to any person not legally entitled
thereto any information relating to the affairs of the Unit Trust of India or
to the affairs of any person having any dealing with the said Trust; nor will
I allow any such person to inspect or have access to any books or documents
belonging to or in possession of the Unit Trust of India and relating to the
business of the said Trust or the business of any person having any dealing
with the said Trust.Signed before me:(Signature)THE SECOND SCHEDULE.[Amendment
of certain enactments.]Rep. by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1974, (56 of
1974), s. 2 and Sch. 1.

