## Union of India - Act

## THE UTTAR PRADESH REORGANISATION ACT, 2000

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# THE UTTAR PRADESH REORGANISATION ACT, 2000

## Act 29 of 2000

  * Published in Gazette of India on 25 August 2000 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2004.] 

  1. [Amended by The Uttar Pradesh Reorganisation (Amendment) Act, 2003 (Act 7 of 2004) on 1 January 2004] 

An Act to provide for the reorganisation of the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh and for matters connected therewith.BE it enacted by Parliament in the
Fifty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title.-

This Act may be called the Uttar Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000.

### 2. Definitions.-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"appointed day"1 means
the day which the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint;(b)"article" means an article of the
Constitution;(c)"assembly constituency", "council constituency" and
"parliamentary constituency" have the same meanings as in the Representation
of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950);(d)"Election Commission" means the
Election Commission appointed by the President under article 324;(e)"existing
State of Uttar Pradesh" means the State of Uttar Pradesh as existing
immediately before the appointed day;(f)"law" includes any enactment,
ordinance, regulation, order, bye-law, rule, scheme, notification or other
instrument having, immediately before the appointed day, the force of law in
the whole or in any part of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh;(g)"notified
order" means an order published in the Official Gazette;(h)"population ratio",
in relation to the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal, means the ratio of
1321:70;(i)"sitting member", in relation to either House of Parliament or of
the Legislature of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh, means a person who
immediately before the appointed day, is a member of that House;(j)"successor
State", in relation to the existing State of Uttar Pradesh, means the State of
Uttar Pradesh or Uttaranchal;(k)"transferred territory" means the territory
which on the appointed day is transferred from the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh to the State of Uttaranchal;(l)"treasury" includes a sub-treasury;
and(m)any reference to a district, tehsil or other territorial division of the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall be construed as a reference to the area
comprised within that territorial division on the appointed day.

## Part II – Reorganisation of The State of Uttar Pradesh

### 3. Formation of Uttaranchal State.-

On and from the appointed day, there shall be formed a new State to be known
as the State of Uttaranchal comprising the following territories of the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh, namely:-Pauri Garhwal, Tehri Garhwal, Uttar
Kashi, Chamoli, Dehradun, Nainital, Almora, Pithoragarh, Udham Singh Nagar,
Bageshwar, Champawat, Rudraprayag and Hardwar districts,and thereupon the said
territories shall cease to form part of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh.

### 4. State of Uttar Pradesh and territorial divisions thereof.-

On and from the appointed day, the State of Uttar Pradesh shall comprise the
territories of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh other than those specified
in section 3.

### 5. Amendment of the First Schedule to the Constitution.-

On and from the appointed day, in the First Schedule to the Constitution,
under the heading "I. THE STATES",-(a)in the paragraph relating to the
territories of the State of Uttar Pradesh, after the words, brackets and
figures "clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Bihar and Uttar
Pradesh (Alteration of Boundaries) Act, 1968 (24 of 1968), the following shall
be inserted, namely:-"and the territories specified in section 3 of the Uttar
Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000";(b)after entry 26, the following entry shall
be inserted, namely:-"27. Uttaranchal: The territories specified in section 3
of the Uttar Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000.".

### 6. Saving powers of State Governments.-

Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Part shall be deemed to affect the
power of the Government of Uttar Pradesh or Uttaranchal to alter, after the
appointed day, the name, area or boundaries of any district or other
territorial division in the State.

## Part III – Representation in the Legislatures

**The Council of States**

### 7. Amendment of the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution.-

On and from the appointed day, in the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution, in
the Table,-(a)entries 17 to 28 shall be renumbered as entries 18 to 29
respectively;(b)in entry 16, for the figures "34", the figures "31" shall be
substituted;(c)after entry 16, the following entry shall be inserted,
namely:-"17.Uttaranchal
....................................................................3".

### 8. Allocation of sitting members.-

(1)On and from the appointed day, thirty-four sitting members of the Council
of States representing the existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall be deemed to
have been elected to fill the seats allotted to the States of Uttar Pradesh
and Uttaranchal, as specified in the First Schedule to this Act.(2)The term of
office of such sitting members shall remain unaltered.**The House of the
People**

### 9. Representation in the House of the People.-

On and from the appointed day, there shall be allocated 80 seats to the
successor State of Uttar Pradesh, and 5 to the successor State of Uttaranchal,
in the House of the People, and the First Schedule to the Representation of
the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950) shall be deemed to be amended accordingly.

### 10. Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies.-

On and from the appointed day, the Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly
Constituencies Order, 1976, shall stand amended as directed in the Second
Schedule to this Act.

### 11. Provision as to sitting members.-

(1)Every sitting member of the House of the People representing a constituency
which, on the appointed day by virtue of the provisions of section 10, stands
allotted, with or without alteration of boundaries, to the successor State of
Uttar Pradesh or Uttaranchal, shall be deemed to have been elected to the
House of the People by that constituency as so allotted.(2)The term of office
of such sitting members shall remain unaltered.**The Legislative Assembly**

### 12. Provisions as to Legislative Assemblies.-

(1)The number of seats as on the appointed day in the Legislative Assemblies
of the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal shall be four hundred and three
and seventy respectively.(2)In the Second Schedule to the Representation of
the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950), under heading "I. States"-(a)entries 25 and
26 shall be renumbered as entries 26 and 27 respectively;(b)after entry 24,
the following entry shall be inserted, namely:-

1 | 5  
---|---  
"25. Uttaranchal................................... | 70";  
  
### 13. Allocation of sitting members.-

(1)Every sitting member of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of
Uttar Pradesh elected to fill a seat in that Assembly from a constituency
which on the appointed day by virtue of the provisions of section 10 stands
allotted, with or without alteration of boundaries, to the State of
Uttaranchal shall, on and from that day, cease to be a member of the
Legislative Assembly of Uttar Pradesh and shall be deemed to have been elected
to fill a seat in the provisional Legislative Assembly of Uttaranchal from
that constituency as so allotted.(2)All other sitting members of the
Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall continue to
be members of the Legislative Assembly of that State and any such sitting
member representing a constituency the extent or the name and extent of which
are altered by virtue of the provisions of section 10 shall be deemed to have
been elected to the Legislative Assembly of Uttar Pradesh by that constituency
as so altered.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the
time being in force, the Legislative Assemblies of Uttar Pradesh and
Uttaranchal shall be deemed to be duly constituted on the appointed day.(4)The
sitting member of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh nominated to that Assembly under article 333 to represent the Anglo-
Indian community shall be deemed to have been nominated to represent the said
community in the Legislative Assembly of Uttar Pradesh under that article.

### 14. Composition of provisional Legislative Assembly of Uttaranchal.-

(1)On and from the appointed day and until the Legislative Assembly of the
successor State of Uttaranchal has been duly constituted and summoned to meet
for the first session under the provisions of the Constitution, a provisional
Legislative Assembly of the State of Uttaranchal, consisting of the twenty-two
sitting members of the Legislative Assembly and nine members of the
Legislative Council of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh representing the
Assembly constituencies or Council constituencies of the territories
transferred by virtue of the provisions of section 3 shall be
constituted.(2)The provisional Legislative Assembly of the State of
Uttaranchal shall exercise all the powers and perform all the duties conferred
by the provisions of the Constitution on the Legislative Assembly of that
State.(3)The term of office of the members of the provisional Legislative
Assembly of the State of Uttaranchal shall, unless the said Legislative
Assembly is sooner dissolved, expire immediately before the first meeting of
the Legislative Assembly of the State of Uttaranchal.

### 15. Duration of Legislative Assemblies.-

The period of five years referred to in clause (1) of article 172 shall, in
the case of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Uttar Pradesh, be deemed
to have commenced on the date on which it actually commenced in the case of
the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh.

### 16. Speaker and Deputy Speaker.-

(1)The persons who immediately before the appointed day are the Speaker and
Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh shall continue to be the Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively of
that Assembly on and from that day.(2)As soon as may be after the appointed
day, the provisional Legislative Assembly of the successor State of
Uttaranchal shall choose two members of that Assembly to be respectively
Speaker and Deputy Speaker thereof and until they are so chosen, the duties of
the office of Speaker shall be performed by such member of the Assembly as the
Governor may appoint for the purpose.

### 17. Rules of procedure.-

The rules of procedure and conduct of business of the Legislative Assembly of
Uttar Pradesh as in force immediately before the appointed day shall, until
rules are made under clause (1) of article 208, be the rules of procedure and
conduct of business of the Legislative Assembly of Uttaranchal, subject to
such modifications and adaptations as may be made therein by the Speaker
thereof.**The Legislative Council of Uttar Pradesh**

### 18. Legislative Council of Uttar Pradesh.-

On and from the appointed day, there shall be one hundred seats in the
Legislative Council of Uttar Pradesh, and in the Third Schedule to the
Representation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950), for the existing entry 8,
the following entry shall be substituted, namely:-

"8. Uttar Pradesh....................... 100 | 36 | 8 | 8 | 38 | 10".]  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
### 19. Amendment of the Delimitation of Council Constituencies.-

On and from the appointed day, the Delimitation of the Council Constituencies
(Uttar Pradesh) Order, 1951 shall stand amended as directed in the Third
Schedule.

### 20. Provision as to certain sitting members.-

(1)On and from the appointed day, the sitting members of the Legislative
Council of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh specified in the Fourth
Schedule to this Act shall cease to be members of that Council and shall be
deemed to be the members of the provisional Legislative Assembly.(2)On and
from the appointed day, all sitting members of the Legislative Council of the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh other than those referred to in sub-section
(1) shall continue to be members of that Council.(3)The term of office of the
members referred to in sub-section (2) shall remain unaltered.

### 21. Deputy Chairman.-

The person who immediately before the appointed day is the Deputy Chairman of
the Legislative Council of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall continue
to be the Deputy Chairman, on and from that day of that Council.**Delimitation
of Constituencies**

### 22. Delimitation of constituencies.-

(1)For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of section 12, the
Election Commission shall determine in the manner hereinafter provided-(a)the
number of seats to be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes in the Legislative Assemblies of the States of Uttar Pradesh and
Uttaranchal, respectively, having regard to the relevant provisions of the
Constitution;(b)the assembly constituencies into which each State referred to
in clause (a) shall be divided, the extent of each of such constituencies and
in which of them seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes or for the
Scheduled Tribes; and(c)the adjustments in the boundaries and description of
the extent of the parliamentary constituencies in each State referred to in
clause (a) that may be necessary or expedient.(2)In determining the matters
referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1), the Election Commission
shall have regard to the following provisions, namely:-(a)all the
constituencies shall be single-member constituencies;(b)all constituencies
shall, as far as practicable, be geographically compact areas, and in
delimiting them, regard shall be had to physical features, existing boundaries
of administrative units, facilities of communication and conveniences to the
public; and(c)constituencies in which seats are reserved for the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall, as far as practicable, be located in
areas where the proportion of their population to the total population is the
largest.(3)The Election Commission shall, for the purpose of assisting it in
the performance of its functions under sub-section (1), associate with itself
as associate members, five persons as the Central Government may by order
specify, being persons who are the members of the Legislative Assembly of the
State or of the House of the People representing the State:Provided that none
of the associate members shall have a right to vote or to sign any decision of
the Election Commission.(4)If, owing to death or resignation, the office of an
associate member falls vacant, it shall be filled as far as practicable, in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3).(5)The Election Commission
shall-(a)publish its proposals for the delimitation of constituencies together
with the dissenting proposals, if any, of any associate member who desires
publication thereof in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the
Commission may consider fit, together with a notice inviting objections and
suggestions in relation to the proposals and specifying a date on or after
which the proposals will be further considered by it;(b)consider all
objections and suggestions which may have been received by it before the date
so specified; and(c)after considering all objections and suggestions which may
have been received by it before the date so specified, determine by one or
more orders the delimitation of constituencies and cause such order or orders
to be published in the Official Gazette; and upon such publication, the order
or orders shall have the full force of law and shall not be called in question
in any court.(6)As soon as may be after such publication, every such order
relating to assembly constituencies shall be laid before the Legislative
Assembly of the concerned State.

### 23. Power of Election Commission to maintain Delimitation Orders up-to-
date.-

(1)The Election Commission may, from time to time by notification in the
Official Gazette,-(a)correct any printing mistakes in any order made under
section 22 or any error arising therein from inadvertent slip or omission;
and(b)where the boundaries or name of any territorial division mentioned in
any such order or orders is or are altered, make such amendments as appear to
it to be necessary or expedient for bringing such order up-to-date.(2)Every
notification under this section relating to an assembly constituency shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before the concerned Legislative
Assembly.**Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes**

### 24. Amendment of the Scheduled Castes Order.-

On and from the appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order,
1950, shall stand amended as directed in the Fifth Schedule to this Act.

### 25. Amendment of the Scheduled Tribes Order.-

On and from the appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order,
1950, shall stand amended as directed in the Sixth Schedule to this Act.

## Part IV – High Court

### 26. High Court of Uttaranchal.-

(1)As from the appointed day, there shall be a separate High Court for the
State of Uttaranchal (hereinafter referred to as "the High Court of
Uttaranchal") and the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad shall become the
High Court for the State of Uttar Pradesh (hereinafter referred to as the High
Court at Allahabad).(2)The principal seat of the High Court of Uttaranchal
shall be at such place as the President may, by notified order,
appoint.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the Judges
and division courts of the High Court of Uttaranchal may sit at such other
place or places in the State of Uttaranchal other than its principal seat as
the Chief Justice may, with the approval of the Governor of Uttaranchal,
appoint.

### 27. Judges of Uttaranchal High Court.-

(1)Such of the Judges of the High Court at Allahabad holding office
immediately before the appointed day as may be determined by the President
shall on that day cease to be Judges of the High Court at Allahabad and
become, Judges of the High Court of Uttaranchal.(2)The persons who by virtue
of sub-section (1) become Judges of the High Court of Uttaranchal shall,
except in the case where any such person is appointed to be the Chief Justice
of that High Court, rank in that Court according to the priority of their
respective appointments as Judges of the High Court at Allahabad.

### 28. Jurisdiction of Uttaranchal High Court.-

The High Court of Uttaranchal shall have, in respect of any part of the
territories included in the State of Uttaranchal, all such jurisdiction,
powers and authority as, under the law in force immediately before the
appointed day, are exercisable in respect of that part of the said territories
by the High Court at Allahabad.

### 29. Special provision relating to Bar Council and advocates.-

(1)On and from the appointed day, in the Advocates Act, 1961 (25 of 1961), in
section 3, in sub-section (1), in clause (a), for the words "and Uttar
Pradesh", the words "Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal" shall be
substituted.(2)Any person who immediately before the appointed day is an
advocate on the roll of the Bar Council of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh
may give his option in writing, within one year from the appointed day to the
Bar Council of such existing State, to transfer his name on the roll of the
Bar Council of Uttaranchal and notwithstanding anything contained in the
Advocates Act, 1961 (25 of 1961) and the rules made thereunder, on such option
so given his name shall be deemed to have been transferred on the roll of the
Bar Council of Uttaranchal with effect from the date of the option so given
for the purposes of the said Act, and the rules made thereunder.(3)The persons
other than the advocates who are entitled immediately before the appointed
day, to practise in the High Court at Allahabad or any subordinate court
thereof shall, on and after the appointed day, be recognised as such persons
entitled also to practise in the High Court of Uttaranchal or any subordinate
court thereof, as the case may be.(4)The right of audience in the High Court
of Uttaranchal shall be regulated in accordance with the like principles as
immediately before the appointed day are in force with respect to the right of
audience in the High Court at Allahabad.

### 30. Practice and procedure in Uttaranchal High Court.-

Subject to the provisions of this Part, the law in force immediately before
the appointed day with respect to practice and procedure in the High Court at
Allahabad shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in relation to the
High Court of Uttaranchal, and accordingly, the High Court of Uttaranchal
shall have all such powers to make rules and orders with respect to practice
and procedure as are immediately before the appointed day exercisable by the
High Court at Allahabad:Provided that any rules or orders which are in force
immediately before the appointed day with respect to practice and procedure in
the High Court at Allahabad shall, until varied or revoked by rules or orders
made by the High Court of Uttaranchal, apply with the necessary modifications
in relation to practice and procedure in the High Court of Uttaranchal as if
made by that Court.

### 31. Custody of seal of Uttaranchal High Court.-

The law in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to the
custody of the seal of the High Court at Allahabad shall, with the necessary
modifications, apply with respect to the custody of the seal of the High Court
of Uttaranchal.

### 32. Form of writs and other processes.-

The law in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to the form
of writs and other processes used, issued or awarded by the High Court at
Allahabad shall, with the necessary modifications, apply with respect to the
form of writs and other processes used, issued or awarded by the High Court of
Uttaranchal.

### 33. Powers of Judges.-

The law in force immediately before the appointed day relating to the powers
of the Chief Justice, single Judges and division courts of the High Court at
Allahabad and with respect to all matters ancillary to the exercise of those
powers shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in relation to the High
Court of Uttaranchal.

### 34. Procedure as to appeals to Supreme Court.-

The law in force immediately before the appointed day relating to appeals to
the Supreme Court from the High Court at Allahabad and the Judges and division
courts thereof shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in relation to
the High Court of Uttaranchal.

### 35. Transfer of proceedings from Allahabad High Court to Uttaranchal High
Court.-

(1)Except as hereinafter provided, the High Court at Allahabad shall, as from
the appointed day, have no jurisdiction in respect of the transferred
territory.(2)Such proceedings pending in the High Court at Allahabad
immediately before the appointed day as are certified, whether before or after
that day, by the Chief Justice of that High Court, having regard to the place
of accrual of the cause of action and other circumstances, to be proceedings
which ought to be heard and decided by the High Court of Uttaranchal shall, as
soon as may be after such certification, be transferred to the High Court of
Uttaranchal.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2)
of this section or in section 28, but save as hereinafter provided, the High
Court at Allahabad shall have, and the High Court of Uttaranchal shall not
have, jurisdiction to entertain, hear or dispose of appeals, applications for
leave to the Supreme Court, applications for review and other proceedings
where any such proceedings seek any relief in respect of any order passed by
the High Court at Allahabad before the appointed day:Provided that if after
any such proceedings have been entertained by the High Court at Allahabad, it
appears to the Chief Justice of that High Court that they ought to be
transferred to the High Court of Uttaranchal, he shall order that they shall
be so transferred, and such proceedings shall thereupon be transferred
accordingly.(4)Any order made by the High Court at Allahabad-(a)before the
appointed day, in any proceedings transferred to the High Court of Uttaranchal
by virtue of sub-section (2), or(b)in any proceedings with respect to which
the High Court at Allahabad retains jurisdiction by virtue of sub-section
(3),shall for all purposes have effect, not only as an order of the High Court
at Allahabad, but also as an order made by the High Court of Uttaranchal.

### 36. Right to appear or to act in proceedings transferred to Uttaranchal
High Court.-

Any person who, immediately before the appointed day, is an advocate entitled
to practise or any other persons entitled to practise in the High Court at
Allahabad and was authorised to appear in any proceedings transferred from
that High Court to the High Court of Uttaranchal under section 35, shall have
the right to appear in the High Court of Uttaranchal in relation to those
proceedings.

### 37. Interpretation.-

For the purposes of section 35-(a)proceedings shall be deemed to be pending in
a court until that court has disposed of all issues between the parties,
including any issues with respect to the taxation of the costs of the
proceedings and shall include appeals, applications for leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court, applications for review, petitions for revision and petitions
for writs; and(b)references to a High Court shall be construed as including
references to a Judge or division court thereof, and references to an order
made by a court or a Judge shall be construed as including references to a
sentence, judgment or decree passed or made by that court or Judge.

### 38. Savings.-

Nothing in this Part shall affect the application to the High Court of
Uttaranchal of any provisions of the Constitution, and this Part shall have
effect subject to any provision that may be made on or after the appointed day
with respect to that High Court by any Legislature or other authority having
power to make such provision.

## Part V – Authorisation of Expenditure And Distribution of Revenues

### 39. Authorisation of expenditure of Uttaranchal State.-

The Governor of Uttar Pradesh may, at any time before the appointed day,
authorise such expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the State of
Uttaranchal as he deems necessary for any period not more than six months
beginning with the appointed day pending the sanction of such expenditure by
the Legislative Assembly of the State of Uttaranchal:Provided that the
Governor of Uttaranchal may, after the appointed day, authorise such further
expenditure as he deems necessary from the Consolidated Fund of the State of
Uttaranchal for any period not extending beyond the said period of six months.

### 40. Reports relating to accounts of Uttar Pradesh State.-

(1)The reports of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India referred to in
clause (2) of article 151 relating to the accounts of the existing State of
Uttar Pradesh in respect of any period prior to the appointed day shall be
submitted to the Governor of each of the successor States of Uttar Pradesh and
Uttaranchal who shall cause them to be laid before the Legislature of that
State.(2)The President may by order-(a)declare any expenditure incurred out of
the Consolidated Fund of Uttar Pradesh on any service in respect of any period
prior to the appointed day during the financial year or in respect of any
earlier financial year in excess of the amount granted for that service and
for that year as disclosed in the reports referred to in sub-section (1) to
have been duly authorised; and(b)provide for any action to be taken on any
matter arising out of the said reports.

### 41. Distribution of revenue.-

The President shall, by order, determine the share of the States of Uttar
Pradesh and Uttaranchal in its total amount payable to the existing State of
Uttar Pradesh on the recommendation of the Finance Commission constituted
under article 280 in such manner as he thinks fit.

## Part VI – Apportionment of Assets and Liabilities

### 42. Application of Part.-

(1)The provisions of this Part shall apply in relation to the apportionment of
the assets and liabilities of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh immediately
before the appointed day.(2)The successor States shall be entitled to receive
benefits arising out of the decisions taken by the predecessor State and the
successor States shall be liable to bear the financial liabilities arising out
of the decisions taken by the existing State of Uttar Pradesh.(3)The
apportionment of assets and liabilities would be subject to such financial
adjustment as may be necessary to secure just, reasonable and equitable
apportionment of the assets and liabilities amongst the successor
States.(4)Any dispute regarding the amount of financial assets and liabilities
shall be settled through mutual agreement, failing which by order by the
Central Government on the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of
India.

### 43. Land and goods.-

(1)Subject to the other provisions of this Part, all land and all stores,
articles and other goods belonging to the existing State of Uttar Pradesh
shall,-(a)if within the transferred territory, pass to the State of
Uttaranchal; or(b)in any other case, remain the property of the State of Uttar
Pradesh:Provided that where the Central Government is of opinion that any
goods or class of goods should be distributed among the States of Uttar
Pradesh and Uttaranchal, otherwise than according to the situation of the
goods, the Central Government may issue such directions as it thinks fit for a
just and equitable distribution of the goods and the goods shall pass to the
successor States accordingly:Provided further that in case of any dispute
relating to the distribution of any goods or class of goods under this sub-
section, the Central Government shall endeavour to settle such dispute through
mutual agreement arrived at between the Governments of the successor States
for that purpose, failing which the Central Government may, on request by any
of the Governments of the successor States, after consulting both the
Governments of the successor States, issue such direction as it may deem fit
for the distribution of such goods or class of goods, as the case may be,
under this sub-section.(2)Stores held for specific purposes, such as use or
utilisation in particular institutions, workshops or undertakings or on
particular works under construction, shall pass to the successor States in
whose territories such institutions, workshops, undertakings or works are
located.(3)Stores relating to the Secretariat and offices of Heads of
Departments having jurisdiction over the whole of the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh shall be divided between the successor States in accordance with such
directions as the Central Government may, after consultation with the
Government of each successor States, think fit to issue for a just and
equitable distribution of such stores.(4)Any other unissued stores of any
class in the existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall be divided between the
successor States in proportion to the total stores of that class purchased in
the period of three years prior to the appointed day, for the territories of
the existing State of Uttar Pradesh included respectively in each of the
successor States:Provided that where such proportion cannot be ascertained in
respect of any class of stores or where the value of any class of such stores
does not exceed rupees ten thousand, that class of stores shall be divided
between the successor States according to the population ratio.(5)In this
section, the expression "land" includes immovable property of every kind and
any rights in or over such property, and the expression "goods" does not
include coins, bank notes and currency notes.

### 44. Treasury and bank balances.-

The total of the cash balances in all treasuries of the State of Uttar Pradesh
and the credit balances of the State with the Reserve Bank of India, the State
Bank of India or any other bank immediately before the appointed day shall be
divided between the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal according to the
population ratio:Provided that for the purposes of such division, there shall
be no transfer of cash balances from any treasury to any other treasury and
the apportionment shall be effected by adjusting the credit balances of the
two States in the books of the Reserve Bank of India on the appointed
day:Provided further that if the State of Uttaranchal has no account on the
appointed day with the Reserve Bank of India, the adjustment shall be made in
such manner as the Central Government may, by order, direct.

### 45. Arrears of taxes.-

The right to recover arrears of the tax or duty on property, including arrears
of land revenue, shall belong to the successor State in which the property is
situated, and the right to recover arrears of any other tax or duty shall
belong to the successor State in whose territories the place of assessment of
that tax or duty is included on the appointed day.

### 46. Right to recover loans and advances.-

(1)The right of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh to recover any loans or
advances made before the appointed day to any local body, society,
agriculturist or other person in an area within that State shall belong to the
successor State in which that area is included on that day.(2)The right of the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh to recover any loans or advances made before
the appointed day to any person or institution outside that State shall belong
to the State of Uttar Pradesh:Provided that any sum recovered in respect of
any such loan or advance shall be divided between the States of Uttar Pradesh
and Uttaranchal according to the population ratio.

### 47. Investments and credits in certain funds.-

(1)The securities held in respect of the investments made from Cash Balances
Investment Account or from any Fund in the Public Account of the existing
State of Uttar Pradesh as specified in the Seventh Schedule shall be
apportioned in the ratio of population of the successor States:Provided that
the securities held in investments made from the Calamity Relief Fund of the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall be divided in the ratio of the area of
the territories occupied by the successor States:Provided further that the
balance in the Reserve Funds in the Public Account of Uttar Pradesh created
wholly out of appropriations from the Consolidated Fund of the existing State
of Uttar Pradesh, to theextent the balances have not been invested outside
Government account, shall not be carried forward to similar Reserve Funds in
the Public Account of the successor States.(2)The investments of the existing
State of Uttar Pradesh immediately before the appointed day in any special
fund, the objects of which are confined to a local area, shall belong to the
State in which that area is included on the appointed day.(3)The investments
of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh immediately before the appointed day in
any private, commercial or industrial undertaking, in so far as such
investments have not been made or are deemed not to have been made from the
Cash Balances Investment Account, shall pass to the State in which the
principal seat of business of the undertaking is located.(4)Where any body
corporate constituted under a Central Act, State Act or Provincial Act for the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh or any part thereof has, by virtue of the
provisions of Part II, become an inter-State body corporate, the investments
in, or loans or advances to, any such body corporate by the existing State of
Uttar Pradesh made before the appointed day shall, save as otherwise expressly
provided by or under this Act, be divided between the States of Uttar Pradesh
and Uttaranchal in the same proportion in which the assets of the body
corporate are divided under the provisions of this Part.

### 48. Assets and liabilities of State undertakings.-

(1)The assets and liabilities relating to any commercial or industrial
undertaking of the State of Uttar Pradesh shall pass to the State in which the
undertaking is located.(2)Where a depreciation reserve fund is maintained by
the State of Uttar Pradesh for any such commercial or industrial undertaking,
the securities held in respect of investments made from that fund shall pass
to the State in which the undertaking is located.

### 49. Public Debt.-

(1)All liabilities on account of Public Debt and Public Account of the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh outstanding immediately before the appointed
day shall be apportioned in the ratio of population of the successor States
unless a different mode of apportionment is provided under the provisions of
this Act.(2)The individual items of liabilities to be allocated to the
successor States and the amount of contribution required to be made by one
successor State to another shall be such as may be ordered by the Central
Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of
India:Provided that till such orders are issued, the liabilities on account of
Public Debt and Public Account of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall
continue to be the liabilities of the successor State of Uttar Pradesh.(3)The
liability on account of loan raised from any source and re-lent by the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh to such entities as may be specified by the
Central Government and whose area of operation is confined to either of the
successor States shall devolve on the respective States as specified in sub-
section (4).(4)The public debt of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh
attributable to loan taken from any source for the express purpose of re-
lending the same to a specific institution and outstanding immediately before
the appointed day shall,-(a)if re-lent to any local body, body corporate or
other institution in any local area, be the debt of the State in which the
local area is included on the appointed day; or(b)if re-lent to the Uttar
Pradesh Power Corporation Limited, the Uttar Pradesh Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited,
the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, the Uttar Pradesh State
Road Transport Corporation, or the Uttar Pradesh Housing Board or any other
institution which becomes an inter-State institution on the appointed day, be
divided between the States of Uttar Pradesh andUttaranchal in the same
proportion in which the assets of such body corporate or institution are
divided under the provisions of Part VII.(5)Where a sinking fund or a
depreciation fund is maintained by the existing State of Uttar Pradesh for
repayment of any loan raised by it, the securities held in respect of
investments made from that fund shall be divided between the successor States
of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal in the same proportion in which the total
public debt is divided between the two States under this section.(6)In this
section, the expression "Government security" means a security created and
issued by a State Government for the purpose of raising a public loan and
having any of the forms specified in, or prescribed under, clause (2) of
section 2 of the Public Debt Act, 1944 (18 of 1944).

### 50. Floating Debt.-

The liability of the State of Uttar Pradesh in respect of any floating loan to
provide short-term finance to any commercial undertaking shall be the
liability of the State in whose territories the undertaking is located.

### 51. Refund of taxes collected in excess.-

The liability of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh to refund any tax or duty
on property, including land revenue, collected in excess shall be the
liability of the successor State in whose territories the property is
situated, and the liability of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh to refund
any other tax or duty collected in excess shall be the liability of the
successor State in whose territories the place of assessment of that tax or
duty is included.

### 52. Deposits, etc.-

(1)The liability of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh in respect of any
civil deposit or local fund deposit shall, as from the appointed day, be the
liability of the State in whose area the deposit has been made.(2)The
liability of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh in respect of any charitable
or other endowment shall, as from the appointed day, be the liability of the
State in whose area the institution entitled to the benefit of the endowment
is located or of the State to which the objects of the endowment, under the
terms thereof, are confined.

### 53. Provident fund.-

The liability of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh in respect of the
provident fund account of a Government servant in service on the appointed day
shall, as from that day, be the liability of the State to which that
Government servant is permanently allotted.

### 54. Pensions.-

The liability of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh in respect of pensions
shall pass to, or be apportioned between, the successor States of Uttar
Pradesh and Uttaranchal in accordance with the provisions contained in the
Eighth Schedule to this Act.

### 55. Contracts.-

(1)Where, before the appointed day, the existing State of Uttar Pradesh has
made any contract in the exercise of its executive power for any purposes of
the State, that contract shall be deemed to have been made in the exercise of
the executive power-(a)if the purposes of the contract are, on and from the
appointed day, exclusive purposes of either of the successor States of Uttar
Pradesh and Uttaranchal; and(b)in any other case, of the State of Uttar
Pradesh,and all rights and liabilities which have accrued, or may accrue under
any such contract shall, to the extent to which they would have been rights or
liabilities of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh, be rights or liabilities
of the State of Uttaranchal or the State of Uttar Pradesh, as the case may
be:Provided that in any such case as is referred to in clause (b), the initial
allocation of rights and liabilities made by this sub-section shall be subject
to such financial adjustment as may be agreed upon between the successor
States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal or in default of such agreement, as
the Central Government may, by order, direct.(2)For the purposes of this
section, there shall be deemed to be included in the liabilities which have
accrued or may accrue under any contract-(a)any liability to satisfy an order
or award made by any court or other tribunal in proceedings relating to the
contract; and(b)any liability in respect of expenses incurred in or in
connection with any such proceedings.(3)This section shall have effect subject
to the other provisions of this Part relating to the apportionment of
liabilities in respect of loans, guarantees and other financial obligation;
and bank balances and securities shall, notwithstanding that they partake of
the nature of contractual rights, be dealt with under those provisions.

### 56. Liability in respect of actionable wrong.-

Where, immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh is subject to any liability in respect of any actionable wrong other
than breach of contract, that liability shall,-(a)if the cause of action arose
wholly within the territories which, as from that day, are the territories of
either of the successor States of Uttar Pradesh or Uttaranchal, be a liability
of that successor State; and(b)in any other case, be initially a liability of
the State of Uttar Pradesh, but subject to such financial adjustment as may be
agreed upon between the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal or, in default
of such agreement, as the Central Government may, by order, direct.

### 57. Liability as guarantor.-

Where, immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh is liable as guarantor in respect of any liability of a registered co-
operative society or other person, that liability of the existing State of
Uttar Pradesh shall,-(a)if the area of operations of such society or persons
is limited to the territories which, as from that day, are the territories of
either of the States of Uttar Pradesh or Uttaranchal, be a liability of that
successor State; and(b)in any other case, be initially a liability of the
State of Uttar Pradesh, subject to such financial adjustment as may be agreed
upon between the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal or, in default of
such agreements, as the Central Government may, by order, direct.

### 58. Items in suspense.-

If any item in suspense is ultimately found to affect an asset or liability of
the nature referred to in any of the foregoing provisions of this Part, it
shall be dealt with in accordance with that provision.

### 59. Residuary provision.-

The benefit or burden of any asset or liability of the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh not dealt with in the foregoing provisions of this Part shall pass to
the State of Uttar Pradesh in the first instance, subject to such financial
adjustment as may be agreed upon between the States of Uttar Pradesh and
Uttaranchal or, in default of such agreement, as the Central Government may,
by order, direct.

### 60. Apportionment of assets or liabilities by agreement.-

Where the successor States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal agree that the
benefit or burden of any particular asset or liability should be apportioned
between them in a manner other than that provided for in the foregoing
provisions of this Part, notwithstanding anything contained therein, the
benefit or burden of that asset or liability shall be apportioned in the
manner agreed upon.

### 61. Power of Central Government to order allocation or adjustment in
certain cases.-

Where, by virtue of any of the provisions of this Part, any of the successor
States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal becomes entitled to any property or
obtains any benefits or becomes subject to any liability, and the Central
Government is of opinion, on a reference made within a period of three years
from the appointed day by either of the States, that it is just and equitable
that property or those benefits should betransferred to, or shared with, the
other successor State, or that a contribution towards that liability should be
made by the other successor State, the said property or benefits shall be
allocated in such manner between the two States, or the other State shall make
to the State subject to the liability such contribution in respect thereof, as
the Central Government may, after consultation with the two State Governments,
by order, determine.

### 62. Certain expenditure to be charged on Consolidated Fund.-

All sums payable either by the State of Uttar Pradesh or by the State of
Uttaranchal to the other States or by the Central Government to either of
those States, by virtue of the provisions of this Act, shall be charged on the
Consolidated Fund of the State by which such sums are payable or, as the case
may be, the Consolidated Fund of India.

## Part VII – Provisions as to Certain Corporations

### 63. Provisions for Power Corporation Limited, etc.-

(1)The following bodies corporate constituted for the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh, namely:-(a)the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited, the Uttar
Pradesh Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited and the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan
Nigam Limited;(b)the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission;
and(c)the State Warehousing Corporation established under the Warehousing
Corporations Act, 1962 (58 of 1962),shall, on and from the appointed day,
continue to function in those areas in respect of which they were functioning
immediately before that day, subject to the provisions of this section and to
such directions as may, from time to time, be issued by the Central
Government.(2)Any directions issued by the Central Government under sub-
section (1) in respect of the Power Corporation, Commission or Warehousing
Corporation shall include a direction that the Act under which the Power
Corporation, Commission or Warehousing Corporation was constituted shall, in
its application to that Power Corporation, Commission or Warehousing
Corporation, have effect subject to such exceptions and modifications as the
Central Government thinks fit.(3)The Power Corporation, Commission or
Warehousing Corporation referred to in sub-section (1) shall cease to function
as from, and shall be deemed to be dissolved on such date as the Central
Government may, by order, appoint; and upon such dissolution, its assets,
rights and liabilities shall be apportioned between the successor States of
Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal in such manner as may be agreed upon between
them within one year of the dissolution of the Power Corporation, Commission
or Warehousing Corporation, as the case may be, or if no agreement is reached,
in such manner as the Central Government may, by order, determine:Provided
that any liabilities of any of the said Power Corporations referred to in
clause (a) of sub-section (1) relating to the unpaid dues of the coal supplied
to the Power Corporation by any public sector coal company shall be
provisionally apportioned between the corresponding Power Corporations
constituted respectively in the successor States of the existing State of
Uttar Pradesh or after the date appointed for the dissolution of the Power
Corporation under this sub-section in such manner as may be agreed upon
between the Governments of the successor States within one month of such
dissolution or if no agreement is reached, in such manner as the Central
Government may by order determine subject to reconciliation and finalisation
of the liabilities which shall be completed within three months from the date
of such dissolution by the mutual agreement between the successor States or
failing such agreement by the direction of the Central Government:Provided
further that an interest at the rate of two per cent. higher than the cash
credit interest shall be paid on outstanding unpaid dues of the coal supplied
to the Electricity Corporation by the public sectorcoal company till the
liquidation of such dues by the concerned State Power Corporation constituted
in the successor States on or after the date appointed for the dissolution of
the Power Corporation under this sub-section.(4)Nothing in the preceding
provisions of this section shall be construed as preventing the Government of
the State of Uttar Pradesh or, as the case may be, the Government of the State
of Uttaranchal from constituting, at any time on or after the appointed day, a
State Power Corporation, an Electricity Regulatory Commission or a State
Warehousing Corporation for the State under the provisions of this Act
relating to such Power Corporation, Commission or Warehousing Corporation; and
if such a Power Corporation, Commission or Warehousing Corporation is so
constituted in either of the States before the dissolution of the Power
Corporation, Commission or Warehousing Corporation referred to in sub-section
(1),-(a)provision may be made by order of the Central Government enabling the
new Power Corporation, new Commission or the new Warehousing Corporation to
take over from the existing Power Corporation, Commission or Warehousing
Corporation all or any of its undertakings, assets, rights and liabilities in
that State, and(b)upon the dissolution of the existing Power Corporation,
Commission or Warehousing Corporation,-(i)any assets, rights and liabilities
which would otherwise have passed to that State by or under the provisions of
sub-section (3) shall pass to the new Board, new Commission or the new
Warehousing Corporation instead of to that State;(ii)any employee who would
otherwise have been transferred to or re-employed by that State under sub-
section (3), read with clause (i) of sub-section (5), shall be transferred to
or re-employed by the new Power Corporation, new Commission or the new
Warehousing Corporation instead of to or by that State.(5)An agreement entered
into between the successor States under sub-section (3) and an order made by
the Central Government under that sub-section or under clause (a) of sub-
section (4) may provide for the transfer or re-employment of any employee of
the Power Corporation, Commission or Warehousing Corporation referred to in
sub-section (1),-(i)to or by the successor States, in the case of an agreement
under sub-section (2) or an order made under that sub-section;(ii)to or by the
new Power Corporation, new Commission or the new Warehousing Corporation
constituted under sub-section (4), in the case of an order made under clause
(a) of that sub-section,and, subject to the provisions of section 68, also for
the terms and conditions of service applicable to such employees after such
transfer or re-employment.

### 64. Continuance of arrangements in regard to generation and supply of
electric power and supply of water.-

If it appears to the Central Government that the arrangement in regard to the
generation or supply of electric power or the supply of water for any area or
in regard to the execution of any project for such generation or supply has
been or is likely to be modified to the disadvantage of that area by reason of
the fact that it is, by virtue of the provisions of Part II, outside the State
in which the power stations and other installations for the generation and
supply of such power, or the catchment area, reservoirs and other works for
the supply of water, as the case may be, are located, the Central Government
may, after consultation with the Government of each successor States wherever
necessary, give such directions as it deems proper to the State Government or
other authority concerned for the maintenance, so far as practicable, of the
previous arrangement.

### 65. Provisions as to Uttar Pradesh State Financial Corporation.-

(1)The Uttar Pradesh State Financial Corporation established under the State
Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951) shall, onand from the appointed
day, continue to function in those areas in respect of which it was
functioning immediately before that day, subject to the provisions of this
section and to such directions as may, from time to time, be issued by the
Central Government.(2)Any directions issued by the Central Government under
sub-section (1) in respect of the Corporation may include a direction that the
said Act, in its application to the Corporation, shall have effect subject to
such exceptions and modifications as may be specified in the
direction.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2), the Board of Directors of the Corporation may, with the previous
approval of the Central Government and shall, if so required by the Central
Government, convene at any time after the appointed day a meeting for the
consideration of a scheme for the reconstitution or reorganisation or
dissolution, as the case may be, of the Corporation, including proposals
regarding the formation of new Corporations, and the transfer thereto of the
assets, rights and liabilities of the existing Corporation, and if such a
scheme is approved at the general meeting by a resolution passed by a majority
of the shareholders present and voting, the scheme shall be submitted to the
Central Government for its sanction.(4)If the scheme is sanctioned by the
Central Government either without modifications or with modifications which
are approved at a general meeting, the Central Government shall certify the
scheme, and upon such certification, the scheme shall, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in
force, be binding on the Corporations affected by the scheme as well as the
shareholders and creditors thereof.(5)If the scheme is not so approved or
sanctioned, the Central Government may refer the scheme to such Judge of the
High Court of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal as may be nominated in this behalf
by the Chief Justice thereof, and the decision of the Judge in regard to the
scheme shall be final and shall be binding on the Corporations affected by the
scheme as well as the shareholders and creditors thereof.(6)Nothing in the
preceding provisions of this section shall be construed as preventing the
Government of the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal from constituting,
at any time on or after the appointed day, a State Financial Corporation for
that State under the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951).

### 66. Provisions as to certain companies.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this
Part, each of the companies specified in the Ninth Schedule to this Act shall,
on and from the appointed day and until otherwise provided for in any law, or
in any agreement among the successor States, or in any direction issued by the
Central Government, continue to function in the areas in which it was
functioning immediately before that day; and the Central Government may from
time to time issue such directions in relation to such functioning as it may
deem fit, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or in any other law.(2)Any directions issued under sub-
section (1) in respect of a company referred to in that sub-section, may
include directions-(a)regarding the division of the interests and shares of
existing State of Uttar Pradesh in the Company among the successor
States;(b)requiring the reconstitution of the Board of Directors of the
Company so as to give adequate representation to all the successor States.

### 67. General provision as to statutory Corporations.-

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided by the foregoing provisions of this
Part, where any body corporate constituted under a Central Act, State Act or
Provincial Act for the existing State of Uttar Pradesh or any part thereof
has, by virtue of the provisions of Part II, become an inter-State body
corporate, then, the body corporate shall, on and from the appointed day,
continue to function and operate in those areas in respect of which it was
functioning and operatingimmediately before that day, subject to such
directions as may from time to time be issued by the Central Government, until
other provision is made by law in respect of the said body corporate.(2)Any
directions issued by the Central Government under sub-section (1) in respect
of any such body corporate shall include a direction that any law by which the
said body corporate is governed shall, in its application to that body
corporate, have effect subject to such exceptions and modifications as may be
specified in the direction.

### 68. Temporary provisions as to continuance of certain existing road
transport permits.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 89 of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988 (59 of 1988), a permit granted by the State Transport Authority of the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh or any Regional Transport Authority in that
State shall, if such permit was, immediately before the appointed day, valid
and effective in any area in the transferred territory, be deemed to continue
to be valid and effective in that area after that day subject to the
provisions of that Act as for the time being in force in that area; and it
shall not be necessary for any such permit to be countersigned by the State
Transport Authority of Uttaranchal or any Regional Transport Authority therein
for the purpose of validating it for use in such area:Provided that the
Central Government may, after consultation with the successor State Government
or Governments concerned add to amend or vary the conditions attached to the
permit by the Authority by which the permit was granted.(2)No tolls, entrance
fees or other charges of a like nature shall be levied after the appointed day
in respect of any transport vehicle for its operations in any of the successor
States under any such permit, if such vehicle was, immediately before that
day, exempt from the payment of any such toll, entrance fees or other charges
for its operations in the transferred territory:Provided that the Central
Government may, after consultation with the State Government or Governments
concerned, authorise the levy of any such toll, entrance fees or other
charges, as the case may be:Provided further that the provisions of this sub-
section shall not be applicable where any such tolls, entrance fees or other
charges of a like nature is leviable for the use of any road or bridge which
is constructed or developed for commercial purpose by the State Government, an
undertaking of the State Government, a joint undertaking in which the State
Government is a shareholder or a private sector.

### 69. Special provisions relating to retrenchment compensation in certain
cases.-

Where on account of the reorganisation of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh
under this Act, any body corporate constituted under a Central Act, State Act
or Provincial Act, any co-operative society registered under any law relating
to co-operative societies or any commercial or industrial undertaking of that
State is reconstituted or reorganised in any manner whatsoever or is
amalgamated with any other body corporate, co-operative society or
undertaking, or is dissolved, and in consequence of such reconstitution,
reorganisation, amalgamation or dissolution, any workman employed by such body
corporate or in any such co-operative society or undertaking, is transferred
to, or re-employed by, any other body corporate, or in any other co-operative
society or undertaking, then, notwithstanding anything contained in section
25F or section 25FF or section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14
of 1947), such transfer or re-employment shall not entitle him to any
compensation under that section:Provided that-(a)the terms and conditions of
service applicable to the workman after such transfer or re-employment are not
less favourable to the workman than those applicable to him immediately before
the transfer or re-employment;(b)the employer in relation to the body
corporate, the co-operative society or the undertaking where the workman
transferred or re-employed is, by agreement or otherwise, legally liable to
pay to the workman, in the event of his retrenchment, compensation under
section 25F or section 25FF orsection 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (14 of 1947) on the basis that his service has been continuous and has
not been interrupted by the transfer or re-employment.

### 70. Special provision as to income-tax.-

Where the assets, rights and liabilities of any body corporate carrying on
business are, under the provisions of this Part, transferred to any other
bodies corporate which after the transfer carry on the same business, the
losses or profits or gains sustained by the body corporate first-mentioned
which, but for such transfer, would have been allowed to be carried forward
and set off in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of the Income-tax
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), shall be apportioned amongst the transferee bodies
corporate in accordance with the rules to be made by the Central Government in
this behalf and, upon such apportionment, the share of loss allotted to each
transferee body corporate shall be dealt with in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter VI of the said Act, as if the transferee body corporate
had itself sustained such loss in a business carried on by it in the years in
which these losses were sustained.

### 71. Continuance of facilities in certain State institutions.-

(1)The Government of State of Uttar Pradesh or Uttaranchal, as the case may
be, shall, in respect of the institutions specified in the Tenth Schedule to
this Act, located in that State, continue to provide facilities to the people
of the other State which shall not, in any respect, be less favourable to such
people than what were being provided to them before the appointed day, for
such period and upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between
the two State Governments before the 1st day of December, 2001 or if no
agreement is reached by the said date as may be fixed by order of the Central
Government,(2)The Central Government may, at any time before the 1st day of
December, 2001, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in the Tenth
Schedule referred to in sub-section (1) any other institution existing on the
appointed day in the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal and on the issue
of such notification, such Schedule shall be deemed to be amended by the
inclusion of the said institution therein.

## Part VIII – Provisions as to Services

### 72. Provisions relating to All-India Services.-

(1)In this section, the expression "State cadre"-(a)in relation to the Indian
Administrative Service, has the meaning assigned to it in the Indian
Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954;(b)in relation to the Indian Police
Service, has the meaning assigned to it in the Indian Police Service (Cadre)
Rules, 1954; and(c)in relation to the Indian Forest Service, has the meaning
assigned to it in the Indian Forest Service (Cadre) Rules, 1966.(2)In place of
the cadres of the Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service and
Indian Forest Service for the existing State of Uttar Pradesh, there shall, on
and from the appointed day, be two separate cadres, one for the State of Uttar
Pradesh and the other for the State of Uttaranchal in respect of each of these
services.(3)The initial strength and composition of the State cadres referred
to in sub-section (2) shall be such as the Central Government may, by order,
determine before the appointed day.(4)The members of each of the said services
borne on the Uttar Pradesh cadre thereof immediately before the appointed day
shall be allocated to the State cadres of the same service constituted under
sub-section (2) in such manner and with effect from such date or dates as the
Central Government may, by order, specify.(5)Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to affect the operation, on or after the appointed day, of the All-
India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), or the rules made thereunder.

### 73. Provisions relating to other services.-

(1)Every person who immediately before the appointed day is serving in
connection with the affairs of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall, on
and from that day provisionally continue to serve in connection with the
affairs of the State of Uttar Pradesh unless he is required, by general or
special order of the Central Government to serve provisionally in connection
with the affairs of the State of Uttaranchal :Provided that every direction
under this sub-section issued after the expiry of a period of one year from
the appointed day shall be issued with the consultation of the Governments of
the successor States.(2)As soon as may be after the appointed day, the Central
Government shall, by general or special order, determine the successor State
to which every person referred to in sub-section (1) shall be finally allotted
for service and the date with effect from which such allotment shall take
effect or be deemed to have taken effect.(3)Every person who is finally
allotted under the provisions of sub-section (2) to a successor State shall,
if he is not already serving therein be made available for serving in the
successor State from such date as may be agreed upon between the Governments
concerned or in default of such agreement, as may be determined by the Central
Government.

### 74. Other provisions relating to services.-

(1)Nothing in this section or in section 73 shall be deemed to affect on or
after the appointed day, the operation of the provisions of Chapter I of Part
XIV of the Constitution in relation to determination of the conditions of
service of persons serving in connection with the affairs of the Union or any
State:Provided that the conditions of service applicable immediately before
the appointed day in the case of any person deemed to have been allocated to
the State of Uttar Pradesh or to the State of Uttaranchal under section 73
shall not be varied to his disadvantage except with the previous approval of
the Central Government.(2)All services prior to the appointed day rendered by
a person,-(a)if he is deemed to have been allocated to any State under section
73, shall be deemed to have been rendered in connection with the affairs of
that State;(b)if he is deemed to have been allocated to the Union in
connection with the administration of the Uttaranchal, shall be deemed to have
been rendered in connection with the affairs of the Union,for the purposes of
the rules regulating his conditions of service.(3)The provisions of section
73, shall not apply in relation to members of any All-India Service.

### 75. Provisions as to continuance of officers in same post.-

(1)Every person who, immediately before the appointed day, is holding or
discharging the duties of any post or office in connection with the affairs of
the existing State of Uttar Pradesh in any area which on that day falls within
any of the successor States shall continue to hold the same post or office in
that successor State, and shall be deemed, on and from that day, to have been
duly appointed to the post or office by the Government of, or any other
appropriate authority in that successor State:Provided that nothing in this
section shall be deemed to prevent a competent authority, on and from the
appointed day, from passing in relation to such person any order affecting the
continuance in such post or office.

### 76. Advisory Committees.-

The Central Government may, by order, establish one or more Advisory
Committees for the purpose of assisting it in regard to-(a)the discharge of
any of its functions under this Part; and(b)the ensuring of fair and equitable
treatment to all persons affected by the provisions of this Part and the
proper consideration of any representations made by such persons.

### 77. Power of Central Government to give directions.-

The Central Government may give such directions to the State Government of
Uttar Pradesh and the State Government of Uttaranchal as may appear to it to
be necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the foregoing provisions of
this Part and the State Government shall comply with such directions.

### 78. Provisions as to State Public Service Commission.-

(1)The Public Service Commission for the existing State of Uttar Pradesh
shall, on and from the appointed day, be the Public Service Commission for the
State of Uttar Pradesh.(2)The persons holding office immediately before the
appointed day as the Chairman or other member of the Public Service Commission
for the existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall, as from the appointed day, be
the Chairman or, as the case may be, the other member of the Public Service
Commission for the State of Uttar Pradesh.(3)Every person who becomes the
Chairman or other member of the Public Service Commission for the State of
Uttar Pradesh on the appointed day under sub-section (2), shall-(a)be entitled
to receive from the Government of the State of Uttar Pradesh conditions of
service not less favourable than those to which he was entitled under the
provisions applicable to him;(b)subject to the proviso to clause (2) of
article 316, hold office or continue to hold office until the expiration of
his term of office as determined under the provisions applicable to him
immediately before the appointed day.(4)The report of the Uttar Pradesh Public
Service Commission as to the work done by the Commission in respect of any
period prior to the appointed day shall be presented under clause (2) of
article 323 to the Governors of the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal,
and the Governor of the State of Uttar Pradesh shall, on receipt of such
report, cause a copy thereof together with a memorandum explaining as far as
possible, as respects the cases, if any, where the advice of the Commission
was not accepted, the reasons for such non-acceptance to be laid before the
Legislature of the State of Uttar Pradesh and it shall not be necessary to
cause such report or any such memorandum to be laid before the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Uttaranchal.

## Part IX – Management and Development of Water Reources

### 79. Water Resources Development and its Management.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act but subject to the
provisions of section 80, all rights and liabilities of the existing State of
Uttar Pradesh in respect of water resource projects in relation to-(i)Ganga
and its tributaries traversing the successor States excluding the Upper Yamuna
River up to Okhla; and(ii)Upper Yumuna River and its tributaries up to
Okhla,shall, on the appointed day, be the rights and liabilities of the
successor States in such proportion as may be fixed, and subject to such
adjustments as may be made, by agreement entered into by the said States after
consultation with the Central Government, or, if no such agreement is entered
into within two years of the appointed day, then, the Central Government may,
by order, determine within one year having regard to the purposes of the
project:Provided that the order so made by the Central Government may be
varied by any subsequent agreement entered into by the successor States after
consultation with the Central Government.(2)An agreement or order referred to
in sub-section (1) shall, where an extension or further development of any of
the projects referred to in that sub-section after the appointed day is
undertaken, be the rights and liabilities of the successor States in relation
to such extension or further development.(3)The rights and liabilities
referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) shall include-(a)the right to receive
and utilise the water available for distribution as a result of the projects;
and(b)the right to receive and utilise the power generated as a result of the
projects,but shall not include the rights and liabilities under any contract
entered into before the appointed day by the Government of the existing State
of Uttar Pradesh with any person or authority other than Government.

### 80. Constitution and functions of the Ganga Management Board.-

(1)The Central Government shall constitute a Board to be called the Ganga
Management Board (hereinafter referred to as the Board) for administration,
construction, maintenance and operation of projects referred to in sub-section
(1) of section 79 for any or for a combination of the following purposes,
namely:-(i)irrigation;(ii)rural and urban water supply;(iii)hydro power
generation;(iv)navigation;(v)industries; and(vi)for any other purpose which
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify.(2)The Board shall consist of-(a)a whole-time Chairman to be appointed
by the Central Government in consultation with the successor States;(b)two
full time members, one from each of the successor States, to be nominated by
the respective State Government;(c)four part-time members, two from each of
the successor States, to be nominated by the respective State
Government;(d)two representatives of the Central Government to be nominated by
that Government.(3)The functions of the Board shall include-(a)the regulation
of supply of water from the projects referred to in clause (i) of sub-section
(1) of section 79 to the successor States having regard to-(i)any agreement
entered into or arrangement made covering the Government of existing State of
Uttar Pradesh and any other State or Union territory, and(ii)the agreement or
the order referred to in sub-section (2) of section 79;(b)the regulation of
supply of power generated at the projects referred to in clause (i) of sub-
section (1) of section 79, to any Electricity Board or other authority in-
charge of the distribution of power having regard to-(i)any agreement entered
into, or arrangement made covering the Government of the existing State of
Uttar Pradesh and any other State or Union territory, and(ii)the agreement or
the order referred to in sub-section (2) of section 79;(c)the construction of
such of the remaining on-going or new works connected with the development of
the water resources projects relating to the rivers or their tributaries as
the Central Government may specify by notification in the Official
Gazette;(d)such other functions as the Central Government may, after
consultation with the successor States entrust to it.

### 81. Staff of the Management Board.-

(1)The Board may employ such staff, as it may consider necessary for the
efficient discharge of its functions under this Act. Such staff shall at the
first instance, be appointed on deputation from the successor State failing
which through any other method:Provided that every person who, immediately
before the constitution of the said Board, was engaged in the construction,
maintenance or operation of the works relating to the projects referred to in
clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 79 shall continue to be so employed
under the Board in connection with the said works on the same terms and
conditions of service as were applicable to him before such constitution until
the Central Government, by order, directs otherwise:Provided further that the
said Board may, in consultation with the Government of the successor State or
the Electricity Board concerned and with the prior approval of the Central
Government, retain any such person for service under that State Government or
Board.(2)The Government of the successor States shall at all times provide the
necessary funds to the Board to meet all expenses (including the salaries and
allowances of the staff) required for the discharge of its functions and such
amounts shall be apportioned between the States concerned in such proportion
as the Central Government may, having regard to the benefits to each of the
said States specify.(3)The Board shall be under the control of the Central
Government and shall comply with such directions, as may, from time to time,
be given to it by that Government.(4)The Board may delegate such of its
powers, functions and duties as it may deem fit to the Chairman of the said
Board or to any officer subordinate to the Board.(5)The Central Government
may, for the purpose of enabling the Board to function efficiently, issue such
directions to the State Governments concerned, or any other authority, and the
State Governments, or the other authority shall comply with such directions.

### 82. Jurisdiction of the Board.-

(1)The Board shall, ordinarily exercise jurisdiction in regard to any of the
projects referred to in clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 79 over
headworks (barrages, dams, reservoirs, regulating structures), part of canal
network and transmission lines necessary to deliver water or power to the
States concerned.(2)If any question arises as to whether the Board has
jurisdiction under sub-section (1) over any project referred thereto, the same
shall be referred to the Central Government for decision thereon.

### 83. Power of Board to make regulations.-

The Board may make regulations consistent with the Act and the rules made
thereunder, to provide for-(a)regulating the time and place of meetings of the
Board and the procedure to be followed for the transaction of business at such
meetings;(b)delegation of powers and duties of the Chairman or any officer of
the Board;(c)the appointment and regulation of the conditions of service of
the officers and other staff of the Board;(d)any other matter for which
regulations are considered necessary by the Board.

### 84. Allocation of the water resources of the River Yamuna.-

(1)The utilisable water resources of the Yamuna River up to Okhla, as
allocated, before the appointed day, to the existing State of Uttar Pradesh
under the Memorandum of Undertakings, dated the 12th May, 1994 shall be
further allocated between the successor States by mutual agreement within a
period of two years, failing which, the Central Government shall, by order,
determine the allocation of such water resource between the successor States
within a further period of one year.(2)The State of Uttaranchal shall, on the
appointed day, be inducted as a member of the Upper Yamuna Board constituted
for the implementation of the Memorandum of Undertaking referred to in sub-
section (1).

## Part X – Legal and Miscellaneous Provisions

### 85. Amendment of section 15 of Act 37 of 1956.-

On and from the appointed day, in section 15 of the States Reorganisation Act,
1956, in clause (b), for the words "Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh", the
words "Uttar Pradesh, Uttaranchal and Madhya Pradesh" shall be substituted.

### 86. Territorial extent of laws.-

The provisions of Part II shall not be deemed to have affected any change in
the territories to which the Uttar Pradesh Imposition of Ceiling of Land
Holding Act, 1961 (U.P. Act 1 of 1961) and any other law in force immediately
before the appointed day, extends or applies, and territorial references in
any such law to the State of Uttar Pradesh shall, until otherwise provided by
a competent Legislature or other competent authority be construed as meaning
the territories within the existing State of Uttar Pradesh before the
appointed day.

### 87. Power to adapt laws.-

For the purpose of facilitating the application in relation to the State of
Uttar Pradesh or Uttaranchal of any law made before the appointed day, the
appropriate Government may, before the expiration of two years from that day,
by order, make such adaptations and modifications of the law, whether by way
of repeal or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and thereupon every
such law shall have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so
made until altered, repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other
competent authority.Explanation.-In this section, the expression "appropriate
Government" means as respects any law relating to a matter enumerated in the
Union List, the Central Government, and as respects any other law in its
application to a State, the State Government.

### 88. Power to construe laws.-

Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient provision has been made
under section 87 for the adaptation of a law made before the appointed day,
any court, tribunal or authority, required or empowered to enforce such law
may, for the purpose of facilitating its application in relation to the State
of Uttar Pradesh or Uttaranchal, construe the law in such manner, without
affecting the substance, as may be necessary or proper in regard to the matter
before the court, tribunal or authority.

### 89. Power to name authorities, etc., for exercising statutory functions.-

The Government of the State of Uttaranchal, as respects the transferred
territory may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the authority,
officer or person who, on or after the appointed day, shall be competent to
exercise such functions exercisable under any law in force on that day as may
be mentioned in that notification and such law shall have effect accordingly.

### 90. Legal proceedings.-

Where, immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh is a party to any legal proceedings with respect to any property,
rights or liabilities subject to apportionment between the States of Uttar
Pradesh and Uttaranchal under this Act, the State of Uttar Pradesh or
Uttaranchal which succeeds to, or acquires a share in, that property or those
rights or liabilities by virtue of any provision of this Act shall be deemed
to be substituted for the existing State of Uttar Pradesh or added as a party
to those proceedings, and the proceedings may continue accordingly.

### 91. Transfer of pending proceedings.-

(1)Every proceeding pending immediately before the appointed day before a
court (other than High Court), tribunal, authority or officer in any area
which on that day falls within the State of Uttar Pradesh shall, if it is a
proceeding relating exclusively to the territory, which as from that day are
the territories of Uttaranchal State, stand transferred to the corresponding
court, tribunal, authority or officer of that State.(2)If any question arises
as to whether any proceeding should stand transferred under sub-section (1) it
shall be referred to the High Court at Allahabad and the decision of that High
Court shall be final.(3)In this section-(a)"proceeding" includes any suit,
case or appeal; and(b)"corresponding court, tribunal, authority or officer" in
the State of Uttaranchal means-(i)the court, tribunal, authority or officer in
which, or before whom, the proceeding would have laid if it had been
instituted after the appointed day; or(ii)in case of doubt, such court,
tribunal, authority, or officer in that State, as may be determined after the
appointed day by the Government of that State or the Central Government, as
the case may be, or before the appointed day by the Government of the existing
State of Uttar Pradesh to be the corresponding court, tribunal, authority or
officer.

### 92. Right of pleaders to practise in certain cases.-

Any person who, immediately before the appointed day, is enrolled as a pleader
entitled to practise in any subordinate courts in the existing State of Uttar
Pradesh shall, for a period of one year from that day, continue to be entitled
to practise in those courts, notwithstanding that the whole or any part of the
territories within the jurisdiction of those courts has been transferred to
the State of Uttaranchal.

### 93. Effect of provisions of the Act inconsistent with other laws.-

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law.

### 94. Power to remove difficulties.-

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the President may, by order, do anything not inconsistent with such provisions
which appears to him to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing
the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of three years from the appointed day.(2)Every order made under this
section shall be laid before each House of Parliament.The First Schedule(See
Section 8)(i)Of the eleven sitting members whose term of office will expire in
1[25th November, 2002], namely, Shri Narendra Mohan, Shri Raj Nath Singh, Shri
Chaudhary Chunni Lal, Shri Devi Prasad Singh, Shri Manohar Kant Dhyani, Shri
Amar Singh, Shri Mohammad Azam Khan, Shri R.N. Arya, Shri Gandhi Azad, Shri
1[Akhilesh Das] and Shri 1[Balwant Singh Ramuwalia], Shri Manohar Kant Dhyani
shall be deemed to have been elected to fill one seat out of the three seats
allocated in the Council of States to the State of Uttaranchal and the other
ten sitting members shall be deemed to have been elected to fill ten of the
seats allotted to the State of Uttar Pradesh.(ii)Of the twelve sitting members
whose term of office will expire in 1[4th July, 2004, namely, Shri Arun
Shourie, Shri 1[Triloki Nath], Shri B.P. Singhal, Shri Dharam Pal Yadav, Shri
Deena Nath Mishra, Shri Ram Gopal Yadav, Shri Kanshi Ram, Shri Sangh Priya
Gautam, Shri Munavvar Hasan, Shri 1[Khan Gufaran Zahidi], Shri Syed Akhter
Hasan Rizvi, Shri Rama Shanker Kaushik, such one as the Chairman of the
Council of States may determine by drawing lot shall be deemed to have been
elected to fill one of the seats allotted to the State of Uttaranchal and the
other eleven sitting members shall be deemed to have been elected to fill
eleven of the seats allotted to the State of Uttar Pradesh.(iii)Of the eleven
sitting Members representing the State of Uttar Pradesh whose term of office
will expire on 2nd April, 2006, such one as the Chairman of the Council of
States may determine by drawing lot shall be deemed to have been elected to
fill one of the seats allotted to the State of Uttaranchal.The Second
Schedule(See section 10)Amendments to the Delimitation of Parliamentary and
Assembly ConstituenciesOrder, 1976In the Delimitation of Parliamentary and
Assembly Constituency Order, 1976,-

### 1\. In Schedule XXII,-

(i)in PART A-Parliamentary Constituencies,-(a)serial numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 and 85
and entries relating thereto shall be omitted;(b)in serial number 12 at the
end, the following figures and word shall be inserted,
namely:-"56-Baheri";(c)in serial number 82 at the end, the following figures
and word shall be inserted, namely:-"416-Deoband";(d)in serial number 84 at
the end, the following figures, brackets and letters shall be inserted,
namely:-"415-Nagal (SC)";(ii)in PART B--Assembly Constituencies, serial
numbers 1 to 16 (both inclusive) and 420 to 425 (both inclusive) and the
entries relating thereto shall be omitted.

### 2\. After Schedule XXII, the following shall be inserted, namely:-

"Schedule XXIIAUttaranchal

## Part A – .

Parliamentary Constituencies

**Serial No.,** | **Name and extent in terms of assembly Constituencies**  
---|---  
1. | Tehri Garhwal.-1-Uttar Kashi (SC), 2-Tehri, 3-Deoprayag, 4-Mussoorie and 5-Chakrata (ST).  
2. | Garhwal.-6-Lansdowne, 7-Pauri, 8-Karanprayag, 9-Badri-Kedar and 10-Dehra Dun.  
3. | Almora.-11-Didihat, 12-Pithoragarh, 13-Almora, 14-Bageshwar (SC) and 15-Ranikhet.  
4. | Naini Tal.-16-Naini Tal, 17-Khatima (SC), 18-Haldwani and 19-Kashipur.  
5. | Hardwar (SC).-20-Roorkee, 21-Lhaksar and 22-Hardwar.".  
  
## Part B – .

Assembly Constituency

**Serial No.,** | **Name and extent of Constituency**  
---|---  
1. |  The detailedparticulars regarding the name and extent of the Constituencies in eachof the districts in the State of Uttaranchal shall be as delimited bythe Election Commission.".  
  
The Third Schedule(See Section 19)Modification in the Delimitation of Council
Constituencies(Uttar Pradesh) Order, 1951For the table appended to the
Delimitation of Council Constituencies (Uttar Pradesh) Order, 1951, the
following table shall be substituted, namely:-"Table

**Name of Constituency** | **Extent of Constituency** | **Number of Seats**  
---|---|---  
**1** | **2** | **3**  
**Graduates Constituencies**  
1\. Bareilly-Moradabad Division Graduates | Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur,1[Budaun], Rampur, Moradabad, Jyotibaphule Nagar and Bijnor districts | 1  
2\. Lucknow Division Graduates | Lucknow, Hardoi, Kheri, Sitapur, Barabanki, Rae Bareli and Pratapgarh districts. | 1  
3\. Gorakhpur-Faizabad Division Graduates |  Bahraich,Shravasti, Gonda, Balrampur, Basti, Siddharthnagar, Santkabir Nagar,Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Deoria, Kushinagar, Azamgarh, Mau, Sultanpur,Faizabad and Ambedkarnagar districts. | 1  
4\. Varanasi Division Graduates | Ballia, 1[Ghazipur], Jaunpur, Varanasi, Chandauli, Sant Ravidas Nagar, Mirzapur and Sonbhadra districts. | 1  
5\. Allahabad-Jhansi Division Graduates | Allahabad, Kaushambi, Fatehpur, Banda, Chitrakot, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Jalaun, Jhansi and Lalitpur districts. | 1  
6\. Kanpur Graduates | Kanpur Nagar and Kanpur Dehat and Unnao Districts. | 1  
7\. Agra Division Graduates | Agra, Firozabad, Mathura, Aligarh, Hathras, Etah, Mainpuri, Etawah, Kannauj, Auraiya and Farrukhabad districts. | 1  
8\. Meerut Division Graduates | Bulandshahar, Ghaziabad, Gautambuddhnagar, Meerut1[Baghpat], Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur districts. | 1  
**Teachers' Constituencies**  
1\. Bareilly-Mordabad Division Teachers | Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur,1[Budaun], Rampur, Mordabad, Jyotibaphule Nagar, and Bijnor districts. | 1  
2\. Lucknow Division Teachers | Lucknow, Hardoi, Kheri, Sitapur, Barabanki, Rae Bareli and Pratapgarh districts. | 1  
3\. Gorakhpur-Faizabad Division Teachers |  Bahraich,Shravasti, Gonda, Balrampur, Basti, Siddarthnagar, Santkabir Nagar,Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Deoria, Kushinagar, Azamgarh, Mau, Sultanpur,Faizabad and Ambedkarnagar districts. | 1  
4\. Varanasi Division Teachers | Ballia, 1[Ghazipur], Jaunpur, Varanasi, Chandauli, Sant Ravidas Nagar, Mirzapur and Sonbhadra districts. | 1  
5\. Allahabad-Jhansi Division Teachers | Allahabad, Kaushambi, Fathepur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Jalaun, Jhansi and Lalitpur districts. | 1  
6\. Kanpur Teachers | Kanpur Nagar and Kanpur Dehat and Unnao districts. | 1  
7\. Agra Division Teachers | Agra, Firozabad, Mathura, Aligarh, Hathras, Etah, Mainpuri, Etawah, Kannauj, Auraiya and Farrukhabad districts. | 1  
8\. Meerut Division Teachers | Bulandshahar, Ghaziabad, Gautambuddhnagar, 1[Baghpat], Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur districts. | 1  
**Local Authorities' Constituencies**  
1\. Mordabad-Bijnor Local Authorities | Mordabad, Jyotibaphule Nagar, and Bijnor districts. | 1  
2\. Rampur-Bareilly Local Authorities | Rampur and Bareilly districts | 1  
3\. 1[Budaun] Local Authorities | 1[Budaun] district. | 1  
4\. Pilibhit Shahjahanpur Local Authorities | Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur districts. | 1  
5\. Hardoi Local Authorities | Hardoi district. | 1  
6\. Kheri Local Authorities | Kheri district. | 1  
7\. Sitapur Local Authorities | Sitapur district. | 1  
8\. Lucknow-Unnao Local Authorities | Lucknow and Unnao districts. | 1  
9\. Rae Bareli Local Authorities | Rae Bareli district. | 1  
10\. Pratapgarh Local Authorities | Pratapgarh district. | 1  
11\. Sultanpur Local Authorities | Sultanpur district | 1  
12\. Barabanki Local Authorities | Barabanki district. | 1  
13\. Bahraich Local Authorities | Bahraich and Shravasti districts. | 1  
14\. Gonda Local Authorities | 1[Gonda and Balrampur istricts]. | 1  
15\. Faizabad Local authorities | Faizabad and Ambedkarnagar districts. | 1  
16\. Basti-Siddharth Nagar Local Authorities | Basti, Santkabir Nagar and Siddharthnagar districts. | 1  
17\. Gorakhpur-Mahrajganj Local Authorities | Gorakhpur and Mahrajganj districts. | 1  
18\. Deoria Local Authorities | Deoria and Kushinagar districts. | 1  
19\. Azamgarh-Mau Local Authorities | Azamgarh and Mau districts. | 1  
20\. Ballia Local Authorities | Ballia district. | 1  
21\. Ghazipur Local Authorities | Ghazipur district. | 1  
22\. Jaunpur Local Authorities | Jaunpur district. | 1  
23\. Varanasi Local Authorities | Varanasi, Chandauli and Sant Ravidasnagar districts. | 1  
24\. Mirzapur-Sonbhadra Local Authorities | Mirzapur and Sonbhadra districts. | 1  
25\. Allahabad Local Authorities | Allahabad and Kaushambi districts. | 1  
26\. Banda-Hamirpur Local Authorities | Banda, Chitrakoot, Hamirpur and Mahoba districts. | 1  
27\. Jhansi-Jalaun-Lulitpur Local Authorities | Jalaun, Jhansi and Lalitpur districts. | 1  
28\. Kanpur-Fatehpur Local Authorities | Kanpur Nagar and Kanpur Dehat and Fatehpur districts. | 1  
29\. Etawah-Farrukhabad Local Authorities | Etawah, Farrukhabad, Kannauj and Auraiya districts. | 1  
30\. Agra-Firozabad Local Authorities | Agra and Firozabad districts. | 1  
31\. Mathura-Etah-Mainpuri Local Authorities | Mathura, Etah and Mainpuri districts. | 2  
32\. Aligarh Local Authorities | Aligarh and Hathras districts. | 1  
33\. Bulandshahar Local Authorities | Bulandshahar and Gautambuddhnagar districts. | 1  
34\. Meerut-Ghaziabad Local Authorities | Meerut, Bagpat and Ghaziabad districts. | 1  
35\. Muzaffarnagar-Saharanpur Local Authorities | Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur districts. | 1".  
  
The Fourth Schedule(See Section 20)List of members of the Legislative Council
of Uttar Pradesh who shall cease to be such members on the appointed day and
deemed to be the members of the Provisional Legislative Assembly:-

### 1\. Shri Nitya Nand Swami.

### 2\. Dr. (Smt.) Indira Hridayesh.

### 3\. Shri Narayan Singh Rana.

### 4\. Shri Tirath Singh Rawat.

### 1\.

[5. Shri Prakash Pant].

### 2\.

* * * * *

### 7\. Smt. Nirupama Gaur.

### 1\.

[8. Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari].

### 1\.

[9. Shri Islam Singh].The Fifth Schedule(See Section 24)Amendment of the
Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950In the Constitution (Scheduled
Castes) Order, 1950,-(a)in paragraph 2, for the figures "XXIII" , the figures
"XXIV" shall be substituted;(b)in the Schedule, after Part XXIII, the
following shall be inserted, namely:-"PART XXIV-Uttaranchal

### 1\. Agariya

### 2\. Badhik

### 3\. Badi

### 4\. Baheliya

### 5\. Baiga

### 6\. Baiswar

### 7\. Bajaniya

### 8\. Bajgi

### 1\.

[9. Balahar]

### 10\. Balai

### 11\. Balmiki

### 12\. Bangali

### 13\. Banmanus

### 14\. Bansphor

### 15\. Barwar

### 16\. Basor

### 17\. Bawariya

### 18\. Beldar

### 19\. Beriya

### 20\. Bhantu

### 21\. Bhuiya

### 22\. Bhuyiar

### 23\. Boria

### 24\. Chamar, Dhusia, Jhusia, Jatava

### 25\. Chero

### 26\. Dabgar

### 27\. Dhangar

### 28\. Dhanuk

### 29\. Dharkar

### 30\. Dhobi

### 31\. Dom

### 32\. Domar

### 33\. Dusadh

### 1\.

[34. Gharami]

### 1\.

[35. Ghasiya]

### 36\. Gond

### 1\.

[37. Gual]

### 38\. Habura

### 39\. Hari

### 40\. Hela

### 41\. Kalabaz

### 42\. Kanjar

### 43\. Kapariya

### 44\. Karwal

### 1\.

[45. Khairaha]

### 1\.

[46. Kharwar (excluding Benbansi)]

### 47\. Khatik

### 1\.

[48. Khorot]

### 49\. Kol

### 50\. Kori

### 51\. Korwa

### 52\. Lalbegi

### 53\. Majhwar

### 54\. Mazhabi

### 55\. Musahar

### 56\. Nat

### 57\. Pankha

### 58\. Parahiya

### 59\. Pasi, Tarmali

### 60\. Patari

### 1\.

[61. Saharya]

### 62\. Sanaurhiya

### 63\. Sansiya

### 64\. Shilpkar

### 65\. Turaiha.".

THE SIXTH SCHEDULE(See section 25)AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION (SCHEDULED
TRIBES) ORDER, 1950In the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950,—(1)in
paragraph 2, for the figures “XX”, the figures “XXI” shall be
substituted;(2)in the Schedule, after Part XX, the following Part shall be
inserted, namely:—“PART XXI.—Uttaranchal

### 1\. Bhotia.

### 2\. Buksa.

### 3\. Jannsari.

### 4\. Raji.

### 5\. Tharu.”.

The Seventh Schedule(See Section 47)List of Funds

### 1\. Depreciation Reserve Fund--Irrigation.

### 2\. Depreciation Reserve Fund--Government Press.

### 3\. Depreciation Reserve Fund--Precision Instrument Factory.

### 4\. Rural Development Fund.

### 5\. Famine Relief Fund.

### 6\. Sugar Research and Labour Housing Management Fund.

### 7\. Zamindari Abolition Fund.

### 8\. U. P. Road Fund.

### 9\. Hospital Fund.

### 10\. Teachers Gratuity Fund.

### 11\. State Bridge Fund.

### 12\. General Insurance Fund.

### 13\. Nazul Fund.

### 14\. State Co-operative Development Fund.

### 15\. Agriculture Credit Relief and Security Fund.

### 16\. Farmer Relief Fund.

### 17\. Depreciation Reserve Fund-Power.

### 18\. Contingency Reserve Fund-Power.

### 19\. Sugar Factory Rehabilitation, Modernisation and Establishment Fund.

### 20\. Cane Research and Development Fund.

### 21\. Consolidated Reduction on Debt Fund for State Development Loan and
Zamindari Abolition and Compensation Bond.

### 22\. Police House Building Fund.

### 23\. Fourth Class House Building Fund.

### 24\. Government Servant Housing Fund.

### 25\. Balanced Area Development Fund.

### 26\. U.P. Youth Welfare Fund.

### 27\. U.P. Student Welfare Fund.

### 28\. Language Fund.

### 29\. Police Welfare Fund.

### 30\. Acharya Narendra Deo Fund.

### 31\. Calamity Relief Fund.

### 32\. Purvanchal Development Fund.

### 33\. Bundelkhand Development Fund.

### 34\. Loan Assistance Fund for payment of Cane Prices.

### 35\. Relief for Productivity Research and Modernisation of Sick Industrial
Units.

### 36\. Secretariat Fund.

### 37\. Vidhayak Nidhi.

The Eighth Schedule(See Section 54)Apportionment of Liability in Respect of
Pensions

### 1\. Subject to the adjustments mentioned in paragraph 3, each of the
successor States shall, in respect of pensions granted before the appointed
day by the existing State of Uttar Pradesh, pay the pensions drawn in its
treasuries.

### 2\. Subject to the said adjustments, the liability in respect of pensions
of officers serving in connection with the affairs of the existing State of
Uttar Pradesh who retire or proceed on leave preparatory to retirement before
the appointed day, but whose claims for pensions are outstanding immediately
before that day, shall be the liability of the State of Uttar Pradesh.

### 3\. There shall be computed, in respect of the period commencing on the
appointed day and ending on such date after the appointed day, as may be fixed
by the Central Government and in respect of each subsequent financial year,
the total payments made in all the successor States in respect of pensions
referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2. The total representing the liability of the
existing State of Uttar Pradesh in respect of pensions shall be apportioned
between the successor States in the population ratio and any successor State
paying the State paying more than its due share shall be reimbursed the excess
amount by the successor State or State paying less.

### 4\. The liability of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh in respect of
pensions granted before the appointed day and drawn in any area outside the
territories of the existing State shall be the liability of the State of Uttar
Pradesh subject to adjustments to be made in accordance with paragraph 3 as if
such pensions had been drawn in any treasury in the State of Uttar Pradesh
under paragraph 1.

### 5\.

(1)The liability in respect of the pension of any officer serving immediately
before the appointed day in connection with the affairs of the existing State
of Uttar Pradesh and retiring on or after that day, shall be that of the
successor State granting him the pension; but the portion of the pension
attributable to the service of any such officer before the appointed day in
connection with the affairs of the existing State of Uttar Pradesh shall be
allocated between the successor States in the population ratio, and the
Government granting the pension shall be entitled to receive from each of the
other successor States its share of this liability.(2)If any such officer was
serving after the appointed day in connection with the affairs of more than
one successor State other than the one granting the pension shall reimburse to
the Government by which the pension is granted an amount which bears to the
portion of the pension attributable to his service after the appointed day the
same ratio as the period of his qualifying service after the appointed day
under the reimbursing State bears to the total qualifying service of such
officer after the appointed day reckoned for the purposes of pension.

### 6\. Any reference in this Schedule to a pension shall be construed as
including a reference to the commuted value of the pension.

The Ninth Schedule(See Section 66)List of Government Companies

**S. No.** | **Name of Government Company** | **Address**  
---|---|---  
1. | Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam Ltd. | Bhumitra Bhawan, 19-B,Vibhuti Khand, Gomati Nagar, Lucknow.  
2. | Uttar Pradesh Agro Industrial Corporation Ltd. | 22, Vidhan Sabha Marg, Lucknow.  
3. | Uttar Pradesh Alpasankhyak Vittiya Nigam Ltd. | 7th Floor, Jawahar Bhawan, Lucknow.  
4. | Uttar Pradesh Electronic Corporation Ltd. | Nav Chetna Kendra, Ashok Marg, Lucknow.  
5. | Uttar Pradesh Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd. | 12th Floor, Vikas Deep, Station Road, Lucknow.  
6. | Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. | 4-B, Gokhle Marg, Lucknow.  
7. | Uttar Pradesh Leather Development and Marketing Corporation Ltd. | 16/58- A, Sadar Bhati Road, Agra.  
8. | Uttar Pradesh Export Corporation Ltd. | 2, Rana Pratap Marg, Lucknow.  
9. | Uttar Pradesh State Food and Essential Commodities Corporation Ltd. | 17, Gokhle Marg, Lucknow.  
10. | Uttar Pradesh Small Industries Corporation Ltd. | 110, Industrial Estate, Fazalganj, Kanpur.  
11. | Uttar Pradesh State Handloom Corporation Ltd. | Hathkargha Bhawan, G.T. Road, Kanpur.  
12. | Uttar Pradesh Police Awas Nigam Ltd. | A-81, Vijay Khand-II, Gomati Nagar, Lucknow.  
13. | Provincial Industrial Investment Corporation of Uttar Pradesh (PICUP) Ltd. | PICUP Bhawan, Gomati Nagar, Lucknow.  
14. | The Indian Turpentine and Rosin Company Ltd. | Culucttarbuckganj, Bareilly.  
15. | Uttar Pradesh State Cement Corporation Ltd. | Churk, Sonbhadra.  
16. | Uttar Pradesh State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. | Kapurthal Complex, Aliganj, Lucknow.  
17. | Uttar Pradesh State Taxtile Corporation Ltd. | Vastra Bhawan, Sharda Nagar, Kanpur.  
18. | Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. | A- 1/4, Lakhanpur, P.O. Box No.1150, Kanpur.  
19. | Uttar Pradesh Project and Tubewells Corporation Ltd. | Left Bank, Gomati Bairaj, Gomati Nagar, Lucknow.  
20. | Uttar Pradesh Mahila Kalyan Nigam Ltd. | B-2/5, Vikas Khand, Gomati Nagar, Lucknow.  
21. | Uttar Pradesh Matsya Vikas Nigam Ltd. | 4/13-14, Vivek Khand, Gomati Nagar, Lucknow.  
22. | Uttar Pradesh Panchayati Raj Vitta Nigam Ltd. | C-232, Niralanagar, Lucknow.  
23. | Uttar Pradesh Pashudhan Udyog Nigam Ltd. | Central Dairy Farm, Aligarh.  
24. | Uttar Pradesh Pichhara Varg Vitta Evam Vikas Nigam Ltd. | PCF Building, 4th Floor, Station Road, Lucknow.  
25. | Uttar Pradesh Poultry and Livestock Specialities Ltd. | Campus Animal Husbandry, Badshahbagh, Lucknow.  
26. | Uttar Pradesh Development Systems Corporation Ltd. | 9, Sarojini Naidu Marg, Lucknow.  
27. | Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation Ltd. | 16, Madan Mohan Malviya Marg, Lucknow.  
28. | Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Ltd. | Vishveshwaraiya Bhawan, Gomati Nagar, Lucknow.  
29. | Uttar Pradesh Anusuchit Jati/Janjati Vikas Nigam Ltd. | B-912, Sector C. Mahanagar, Lucknow.  
30. | Uttar Pradesh Samaj Kalyan Nirman Nigam Ltd. | Lekhraj Market, Indira Nagar, Lucknow.  
31. | Uttar Pradesh Bhootpurva Sainik Kalyan Nigam Ltd. | 54-X, Jopling Road, Lucknow.  
32. | Uttar Pradesh (Madhya) Ganna Beej Vikas Nigam Ltd. | New Berry Road, Near Deputy Cane Commissioner's Office, Lucknow.  
33. | Uttar Pradesh (Paschim) Ganna Beej Vikas Nigam Ltd. | Circular Road, Near Ganna Kisan Sansthan, Muzaffarnagar.  
34. | Uttar Pradesh (Poorva) Ganna Beej Vikas Nigam Ltd. | HIG-VI, Acharya Ram Chandra Shukla Nagar, Deoria.  
35. | Uttar Pradesh (Rohilkhand Terai) Ganna Beej Vikas Nigam Ltd. | 26-27, B.D.A. Colony, Shahamatganj, Barielly.  
36. | Uttar Pradesh State Sugar Corporation Ltd. | Vipin Khand, Near Taj Hotel, Gomati Nagar, Lucknow.  
37. | Uttar Pradesh Tourism Corporation Ltd. | Chitrahar-3, Nawal Kishore Road, Lucknow.  
38. | Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam Ltd. | 74, Rajpur Road, Dehradun.  
39. | Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam Ltd. | Oak Park House, Malli Tal, Nainital.  
40. | Uttar Pradesh Hill Electronics Corporation Ltd. | B-2/140, Vishal Khand Gomati Nagar, Lucknow.  
41. | Uttar Pradesh Waqf Vikas Nigam Ltd. | First Floor, 118, Jawahar Bhawan, Lucknow.  
42. | Uttar Pradesh Seed and Tarai Development Corporation Ltd. | Haldi, Pantnagar, Udhamsinghnagar.  
43. | Kumaon Anusuchit Janjati Vikas Nigam Ltd. | Raj Mahal Hotel Campus, Malli Tal, Nainital.  
44. | Garhwal Anusuchit Janjati Vikas Nigam Ltd. | 74, Rajpur Road, Dehradun  
  
The Tenth Schedule(See Section 71)Continuance of Facilities in Certain State
InstitutionsList of Training Institutions/Centres

### 1\. Uttar Pradesh Academy of Administration, Nainital

### 2\. Uttar Pradesh State Observatory, Nainital

### 3\. Institute of Management Development Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow

### 4\. Judicial Training and Research Institute, Lucknow

### 5\. Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Police Academy, Moradabad

### 6\. Police Training College-II, Moradabad

### 7\. Police Training College-Ill, Gorakhpur

### 8\. Armed Training Centre, Sitapur

### 9\. Police Training College, Moradabad

### 10\. Police Training College, Gorakhpur

### 11\. Recruit Training Centre, Chunar, Mirzapur

### 12\. Police Training College, Unnao

### 13\. Sampurnanand Prison Training Institute, Lucknow

### 14\. Secretariat Training and Management Institute, Lucknow

### 15\. Raja Todarmal Survey and Land Records Institute, Hardoi

### 16\. Land Consolidation Training College, Ayodhya, Faizabad

### 17\. State Engineers' Training Institute, Kalagarh

### 18\. U. P. Water and Land Management Institute, Lucknow

### 19\. Institute of Financial Management Training and Research, Lucknow

### 20\. Cooperative and Panchayat Audit Training Centre, Ayodhya, Faizabad

### 21\. Local Funds Accounts and Audit Training Institute, Allahabad

### 22\. Trade Tax Officers' Training Institute, Lucknow

### 23\. State Electricity Board Training Institute, Dehradun

### 24\. U.P. State Electricity Board Staff College, Dehradun

### 25\. Thermal Power Training Institute, UPSEB, Obra, Sonbhadra

### 26\. Central Civil Defence Training Institute, Lucknow

### 27\. Deen Dayal Upadhyay State Institute of Rural Development, Bakshi Ka
Talab, Lucknow

### 28\. Minor Irrigation Management and Water Management Training Institute,
Bakshi Ka Talab, Lucknow

### 29\. Smt, Indira Gandhi Cooperative Institute, Lucknow

### 30\. Cooperative Training College, Dehradun

### 31\. Agriculture Cooperative Staff Training Institute, Lucknow

### 32\. Institute of Cooperative, Corporate Management Research and Training,
Indira Nagar, Lucknow

### 33\. U. P. Cane Development Institute, Lucknow

### 34\. Uttar Pradesh State Transport Corporation Training Institute, Kanpur

### 35\. Uttar Pradesh State Education Research and Training Board, Allahabad

### 36\. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training
Institute, Lucknow

### 37\. Hotel Management and Catering Institute, Dehradun

### 38\. Research, Development and Training Institute, Kanpur

### 39\. Uttar Pradesh Excise Training Institute, Rae Bareili

### 40\. Central Workers Education Board, Kanpur

### 41\. State Institute of Health and Family Welfare, Indira Nagar, Lucknow

### 42\. Office of the Inspector of Officers, U.P. Allahabad

### 43\. State Planning Institute, Training Division, Kalakankar House, Old
Hyderabad, Lucknow

### 44\. Institute of Entrepreneurship Development, Lucknow

### 45\. Hotel Management and Catering Institute, Almora

### 46\. Moti Lal Nehru Regional Engineering College, Allahabad

### 47\. State Architecture College, Lucknow

### 48\. Central Textile Institute, Kanpur

### 49\. Institute of Engineering and Rural Technology, Allahabad

### 50\. Northern Regional Institute of Printing Technology, Allahabad

### 51\. Khadi and Gramodyog Board, 8, Tilak Marg, Lucknow

### 52\. Dr. Ambedkar Institute of Technology for Handicapped, Kanpur

### 53\. Government Leather Institute, Agra

### 54\. Government Leather Institute, Kanpur

### 55\. Joint Entrance Examination Council, Lucknow

### 1\.

[56. King George Medical Colleges, Lucknow.

### 57\. Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Medical College, Kanpur.

### 58\. Motilal Nehru Medical College, Allahabad.

### 59\. Rani Laxmibai Medical College, Jhansi.

### 60\. Baba Raghav Das Medical College, Gorakpur.

### 61\. Sarojini Naidu Medical College, Agra.

### 62\. Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, Meerut.

### 63\. Ayurvedic College, Lucknow.

### 64\. Rishikul Ayurvedic College, Haridwar.

### 65\. Lalithari Ayurvedic College, Pilibhit.

### 66\. Gurukul Kangadi Ayurvedic College, Haridwar.

### 67\. Bundelkhand Ayurvedic College, Jhansi.

### 68\. Ayurvedic College, Atarra, Banda.

### 69\. Sahu Ramnarayan Murti Manohar Ayurvedic College, Bareilly.

### 70\. Swami Kalyandev Ayurvedic College, Rampur, Muzaffarnagar.

### 71\. Lal Bahadur Shastri Ayurvedic College, Handia, Allahabad.

### 72\. Rajkiya Ayurvedic College, Varanasi.

### 73\. Unani Medical College, Allahabad.

### 74\. Takmil Uttib College, Lucknow.

### 75\. National Homeopathic College, Lucknow.

### 76\. Lal Bahadur Shastri Homeopathic College, Allahabad.

### 77\. Kanpur Homeopathic College, Kanpur.

### 78\. Dr. V. K. Homeopathic College, Faizabad.

### 79\. Mohan Homeopathic College, Lucknow.

### 80\. Shri Durgaji Homeopathic College, Chandeshwar, Azamgarh.

### 81\. T.D. Homeopathic College, Jaunpur.

### 82\. Ghazipur Homeopathic College, Ghazipur.

### 83\. Rajkiya Homeopathic Medical College, Nagina, Bijnor.

### 84\. Rajkiya K.G.K Homeopathic Medical College, Moradabad.

### 85\. Uttar Pradesh State Seed Certification Agency, Lucknow.

### 86\. State Institute of management of Agriculture, Rehmankhera, Lucknow.]

### 1\.

[87. Lekhpal Prashikshan Sansthan, Sheesh Mahal, Lucknow.]

