## Union of India - Act

## The Urban Land (Ceiling And Regulation) Act, 1976

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Urban Land (Ceiling And Regulation) Act, 1976

## Act 33 of 1976

  * Published on 1 January 1976 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1976 
  * [This is the version of this document as it was from 22 March 1999 to None.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Urban land (Ceiling and Regulation) Repeal Act, 1999 (Regulation THE-URBAN-LAND-CEILING-AND-REGULATION of 1999) on 1 January 1999] 

The Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Repeal Act 1999.(33 of 1976)

### 093.

[22nd March, 1999]An Act to repeal the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation)
Act, 1976. Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fiftieth Year of the Republic of
India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, application and commencement.-(1) This Act may be called
The Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Repeal Act, 1999.

### 2. Repeal of Act 33 of 1976.The Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act,
1976 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act) is hereby repealed.

### 3.

(1)The repeal of the principal Act shall not affect(a)the vesting of any
vacant land under sub-section (3) of section 10, possession of which has been
taken over by the State Government or any person duly authorised by the State
Government in this behalf or by the competent authority;(b)the validity of any
order granting exemption under sub-section (1) of section 20 or any action
taken thereunder, notwithstanding any judgment of any Court to the
contrary;(c)any payment made to the State Government as a condition for
granting exemption under sub-section (1) of section 20.(2)Where(a)any land is
deemed to havevested in the State Government under sub-section (3) of section
10 of theprincipal Act but possession of which has not been taken over by the
State Government or any person duly authorised by the State Government in this
behalfor by the competent authority; and(b)any amount has been paidby the
State Government with respect to such land, then, such land shall not be
restored unless the amount paid, if any, has been refunded to the State
Government.

### 4. Abatement of legal proceedings. All proceedings relating to any order
made or

purported to be made under the principal Act pending immediately before
thecommencement of this Act, before any Court, tribunal or other authority
shallabate:Provided that this section shall not apply to the proceedings
relating to sections 11,

### 12.

, 13 and 14 of the principal Act insofar as such proceedings are relatable
tothe land, possession of which has been taken over by the State Government
orany person duly authorised by the State Government in this behalf or by
thecompetent authority.

### 5. Repeal and saving.(1)The Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Repeal
Ordinance, 1999 (Ord. 5 of 1999) is hereby repealed.

(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the
said Ordinance shall be deemed tohave been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.

