## Union of India - Act

## The Voluntary Deposits (Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1991

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Voluntary Deposits (Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1991

## Act 47 of 1991

  * Published on 20 September 1991 
  * Commenced on 20 September 1991 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 September 1991.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Voluntary Deposits (Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1991(47 OF 1991)

### 1067.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-With a view to canalising for certain social
objective black-money which has become a serious threat to the national
economy, the Government has decided to allow voluntary deposits being made
with the National Housing Bank in accordance with a scheme to be formulated by
the Bank, 40 per cent. of the amount of such deposits will be credited by the
National Housing Bank to a special fund, created under the National Housing
Bank Act, 1987, for financing slum clearance and low cost housing for the poor
and 60 per cent. of the amount of such deposits can be utilised by the
depositors for purposes specified by them. It is considered necessary to
provide for certain immunities and exemptions to render it possible for
persons in possession of black-money to make such deposits.[20th September,
1991]An Act to provide for certain immunities to persons making voluntary
deposits with the National Housing Bank and for certain exemptions from direct
taxes in relation to such deposits and for matters connected therwith or
incidental thereto.Whereas for effective economic and social planning it is
necessary to canalise for certain social objectives black money which has
become a serious threat to the national economy;And whereas with a view to
such canalisation, the Central Government has decided to allow voluntary
deposits being made with the National Housing Bank in accordance with a scheme
to be formulated by that Bank whereunder forty per cent. of the amount of such
deposits will be credited to a special fund to be created for financing slum
clearance and low cost housing for the poor and sixty per cent. of the amount
of such deposits can be utilised by the depositors for purposes specified by
them;And whereas it is expedient to provide for certain immunities and
exemptions to render it possible for persons in possession of black money to
make such deposits;Be it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-second Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent .-This Act may be called The Voluntary Deposits
(Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1991.

(2)It extends to the whole of India.

### 2. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"deposit" means a voluntary deposit made by any person with the National
Housing Bank in accordance with the scheme on or after the commencement of
this Act but before the specified date.Explanation .-For the purposes of this
clause, "specified date" means the 1st day of December, 1991 or such other
later date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify in this behalf;(b)"National Housing Bank" means the National
Housing Bank established under section 3 of the National Housing Bank Act,
1987 (53 of 1987);(c)"net deposit" means sixty per cent. of the amount of
deposit made by any person with the National Housing Bank in accordance with
the scheme;(d)"person" includes-(i)an individual,(ii)a Hindu undivided
family;(iii)a company,(iv)a firm,(v)an association of person or a body of
individuals, whether incorporated or not, and(vi)every artificial juridical
person, not falling within any of the preceding sub-clauses, but does not
include a local authority;(e)"scheme" means a scheme formulated by the
National Housing Bank under the National Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987) for the
purpose of enabling-(i)any person to make deposit with that Bank;(ii)such Bank
to credit forty per cent. of the amount of such deposit to a special fund
created for financing slum clearance and low cost housing for the poor;
and(iii)the depositor to utilise the net deposit for any purpose specified by
him;(f)all other words and expressions used in this Act but not defined and
defined in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Immunities .-(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law
for the time being in force,-

(a)no person, who has made a deposit with the National Housing Bank in
accordance with the scheme, shall be required to disclose, for any purpose
whatsoever, the nature and source of the deposit;(b)no inquiry or
investigation shall be commenced against any person under any such law on the
ground that he has made the deposit;(c)the fact that a person has made the
deposit shall not be taken into account and shall be inadmissible as evidence
in any proceedings relating to any offence or the imposition of any penalty
under any such law.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply in relation to
prosecution for any offence punishable under Chapter IX or Chapter XVII of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
Act, 1985 (61 of 1985), the Terrorist and disruptive Activities (Prevention)
Act, 1987 (28 of 1987), the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (49 of 1988),
or for the purpose of enforcement of any civil liability.

### 4. Deposit not to be taken into account in certain cases .-Without
prejudice to the generality of the provisions of section 3,-

(a)the deposit shall not be taken into account for the purpose of any
proceeding under the Income-tax Act, 1961 and, in particular the depositor
shall not be entitled to claim any set-off or relief in any assessment, re-
assessment, appeal, reference or other proceeding under that Act or to re-open
any assessment or re-assessment made under that Act on the ground that he has
made such deposit;Explanation .-For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby
declared that the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961 will apply to any
income which accrues or is deemed to accrue or arise to the depositor from the
amount of the net deposit;(b)the deposit shall not form part of the assets of
any assessee for the purposes of computing his net wealth under the Wealth-tax
Act, 1957 (27 of 1957) in relation to any assessment year commencing before
the 1st day of April, 1992.

### 5. Amendment of Act 53 of 1987.-In the National Housing Bank Act, 1987,-

(a)in section 14,-(i)in clause (b), after the words "scheduled banks", the
words "or to any authority established by or under any Central, State or
Provincial Act and engaged in slum clearance" shall be inserted;(ii)after
clause (h), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-"(hh) formulating
a scheme for the purpose of accepting deposits referred to in clause (a) of
section 2 of the Voluntary Deposits (Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1991 and
crediting forty per cent. of the amount of such deposits to a special fund
created under section 37;";(b)in section 15, in sub-section (1), to clause
(c), the following proviso shall be added, namely:-"Provided that nothing
contained in this clause shall apply to deposits accepted under the scheme
formulated by the Bank in pursuance of clause (hh) of section 14;";(c)in
section 55, in sub-section (5), for the word "regulation", wherever it occurs,
the words "regulation or scheme" shall be substituted.

