## Union of India - Act

## The Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962

## Act 58 of 1962

  * Published on 19 December 1962 
  * Commenced on 19 December 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 May 2015.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Warehousing Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2001 (Act 23 of 2001) on 1 January 2001] 
  2. [Amended by The Warehousing Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2005 (Act 45 of 2005) on 15 September 2005] 
  3. [Amended by THE WAREHOUSING CORPORATIONS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2015 (Act 16 of 2015) on 13 May 2015] 

The Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962ACT NO. 58 OF 1962

### 1325.

Under the Agricultural Produce (Development and Warehousing) Corporations Act,
1956. two interdependent bodies. namely, the National Co-operative Development
and Warehousing Board and the Central Warehousing Corporation were established
and they were under administrative control of the Ministry of Food and
Agricultural. Subsequently, as a result of re-allocation of business among the
Ministries, the twobodiescame under the administrative control of two
different Ministries namely the Ministry of Community Development and Co-
operation and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In the interest of better
functioning of the two bodies and for administrative convenience, it has been
decided that the two bodies should function independently under separate
enactments. A Bill has already been introduced for establishing a separate
National Co-operative Development Corporation in place of the existing Board.
The present Bill seeks to provide for the establishment of a Central
Warehousing Corporation and the each State, a State Warehousing
Corporation.Under this Bill, the Central Warehousing Corporation will continue
to perform the same functions as the existing Corporation. The Central
Government will be a shareholder to the extent of forty per cent. of the
shares of the Corporation in the place of National Co-operative Development
Board, while the other shareholders of the existing Corporation will become
the other share-holders of the new Corporation. The new Corporation will also
maintain the Warehousing Fund. The existing State Warehousing Corporations
shall be deemed to be the Warehousing Corporations established for the
respective States under the new law." - Gazette of India, 3-12-1962, Pt. II,
Section 2. Ext., p. 766.Amending Act 34 of 1963. - Section 3(2) of the
Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962, provides that the head-office of the
Central Warehousing Corporation shall be situated at New Delhi. Government
consider that they should be in a position to locate the head-office at any
place which might be convenient and suitable. This would be in consonance with
the scheme of the Government of India for the disposal of offices from Delhi.
The Bills seeks to amend section 3(2) of the Act suitably so that the proposal
might be implemented, if necessary. - Gazette of India, 13-8-1963, Pt. II,
Section 2. Ext., p. 478.Amending Act 42 of 1976. - The Warehousing
Corporations Act, 1962, was enacted to provide for the incorporation and
regulation of corporations for the purpose of warehousing of agricultural
produce and certain other commodities and for matters connected therewith.
Under the scheme of the Act, the Central Warehousing Corporation and State
Warehousing Corporations. have been entrusted with the tast of building of and
providing scientific storage facilities in different parts of the country.
With the growing activities of the Central and State Warehousing Corporations
in providing scientific storage facilities, some difficulties have been
experienced, which are now proposed to be removed. This has become
particularly necessary in the context of creation of additional warehousing
capacities during the Fifth Plan period. The authorised share capital of the
Central Warehousing Corporation and of some of the State Warehousing
Corporations has been fully paid up. Provision is therefore being made to
empower the Central Government to increase the share capital of the
Warehousing Corporations. At present a Warehousing Corporation can borrow
money only from the Reserve Bank or State Bank among the various financial
institutions.The need for a Warehousing Corporation seeking finances from
additional non-budgetary resources has also been felt. Provision is therefore
being made to enable a Warehousing Corporation to borrow money also from
nationalised banks or such other financial institutions as may be approved by
the Central Government. Similarly, provision is being made to enable a
Warehousing Corporation to deposit money in any nationalised bank in the same
manner as in the Reserve Bank or State Bank. There is no provision in the Act
for meeting from the Warehousing Fund, the expenditure incurred in relation to
the administration of that Fund and this is being met from the General Fund.
It is proposed to provide that expenditure incurred on the administration of
the Warehousing Fund and on the training of personnel and publicity and
propaganda for the promotion of warehousing scheme in relation to agricultural
produce and notified commodities shall he met out of the Warehousing Fund. In
pursuance of Government's derision on the recommendations of Administrative
Reforms Commission provision is also being made for submission by the
Warehousing Corporation of such returns, statistics, accounts and other
information with respect to its property and activities as Government may
require. Opportunity is also being taken to amend the rule lying formula to
bring it in conformity with the recommendation of the Committee or Subordinate
Legislation.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.- Gazette of
India, 30-1-1976, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 560.[19th December, 1962]An Act
to provide for the incorporation and regulation of corporations for the
purpose of warehousing of agricultural produce and certain other commodities
and for matters, connected therewith.

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962.(2)It extends
to the whole of India [***] [Omitted by Act 37 of 1989, Section 2](3)It shall
come into force on such [date] [18th March, 1963; vide Notification No. G.S.R.
463, dated 16-3-1963, see Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt II, Section
3(i), p. 155] as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint.

The date appointed is 18-3-1963 - See Gazette of India, 18-3-1963, Pt. II,
Section 3(i), Ext., p. 155.The Act has been extended to and enforced on
1-1-1984 in Sikkim - See S.O. 529(E) of 1983 and G.S.R. 926(E) of 1983.  
---  
  
### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--(a)"agricultural produce"
means any of the following classes of commodities, namely:--(i)foodstuffs,
including edible oil-seeds;(ii)cattle fodder, including oil-cakes and other
concentrates;(iii)raw cotton, whether ginned or unginned, and cotton
seed;(iv)raw jute; and(v)vegetable oils;(b)"appropriate Government" means in
relation to the Central Warehousing Corporation, the Central Government, and
in relation to a State Warehousing Corporation, the State Government;This Act
shall, in its application to the States specified in the Schedule to Act 20 of
1965, have effect as if in clause (e) of section 2 the words and figures
"being a commodity with respect to which Parliament has power to make laws by
virtue of entry 33 in List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution"
had been omitted: vide Act 20 of 1965, Section 2 (w.e.f.
27-11-1965).(c)"Central Warehousing Corporation" means the Central Warehousing
Corporation established under section 3;(d)"co-operative society" means a
society registered or deemed to be registered under the Co-operative Societies
Act, 1912 (2 of 1912), or under any other law with respect to co-operative
societies for the time being in force in any State, which is engaged in the
processing, marketing, storage, export or import of agricultural produce or
any notified commodity or in insurance business and includes a co-operative
land mortgage bank;(dd)[ "nationalised bank" means a corresponding new bank
specified in the First Schedule to the Banking Companies (Acquisition and
Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970); [or a corresponding new bank
specified in the First Schedule to the Banking Companies (Acquisition and
Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980).] [Inserted by Act 42 of
1976, Section 2 (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)](e)"notified commodity" means any commodity
(other than agricultural produce) which the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be a notified commodity for
the purposes of this Act, being a commodity with respect to which Parliament
has power to make laws by virtue of entry 33 in List III in the Seventh
Schedule to the Constitution;(f)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules under
this Act;(g)"recognised association" means an association which is for the
time being recognised by the Central Government under section 6 of the Forward
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952);(h)"Reserve Bank" means the
Reserve Bank of India constituted under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2
of 1934);(i)"scheduled bank" means a bank for the time being included in the
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934.) [, and
includes a nationalised bank] [Inserted by Act 42 of 1976, Section 2 (w.e.f.
24-3-1976)];(j)"State Bank" means the State Bank of India constituted under
the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955);(k)"State Warehousing
Corporation" means a Warehousing Corporation for a State established or deemed
to be established under this Act;(l)"Warehousing Corporation" means a
Warehousing Corporation established or deemed to be established under this
Act; and(m)"year" means the financial year.

### 2A. [ Construction of references to any law not in force or any
functionary not in existence in any State. [Inserted by Act 37 of 1989,
Section 4.]

Any reference in this Act to any law which is not in force, or any functionary
not in existence, in any State, shall, in relation to that State, be construed
as a reference to the corresponding law in force, or the corresponding
functionary in existence, in that State.]

Additional Information6  
---  
  
(i) Iron and Steel (Metal), (2) Iron and Steel structurals, (3) Insecticides,
fungicides and weedcides, (4) Rubber, (5) Portland Cement, (6) Coir fibre and
coir products, (7) Textiles, (8) Paper and pulp including paper products and
(9) Leather, leather goods and pickers are so notified by G.S.R. 1039
published in Gazette of India, 1963, Pt. II, Section 3(i), p. 1202; Tobacco,
lac and wool are so notified under G.S.R., 1714, published in Gazette of
India, 1965, Pt. II, Section 3(i), p. 1876; Tea chests, panels and battons are
notified by G.S.R. 990 published in Gazette of India, 1966, Pt. II, Section
3(i), p. 1124; Mutton tallow, soda ash and washing soda so declared under
G.S.R. 173 published in Gazette of India, 1968 Pt. II,S. 3(i), p. 160;
Polythene Granules and sheets so notified by G.S.R. 1967, published in Gazette
of India, 1970, Pt. II, Section 3(i), p. 4430.(ii) For modified application of
this section in certain States, see the Warehousing Corporations
(Supplementary) Act, 1965 (20 of 1965), Section 2 (29-11-1965).  
---  
  
## Chapter II  
The Central Warehousing Corporation

### 3. The Central Warehousing Corporation.

(1)With effect from such [date] [18th March, 1963, vide Notification No.
G.S.R. 464, dated 16-3-1963, see Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt. II, See.
3(i), p. 155. ] as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify in this behalf, the Central Government shall establish a
Corporation by the name of the Central Warehousing Corporation which shall be
a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with power to
acquire, hold and dispose of property and to contract, and may, by the said
name, sue and be sued.(2)The head-office of the Central Warehousing
Corporation shall be at New Delhi [or at such other place as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify] [Inserted by
Act 34 of 1963, Section 4.]

### 4. Share capital and shareholders.

(1)The authorised share capital of the Central Warehousing Corporation shall
be twenty crores of rupees divided into two hundred thousand shares of the
face value of one thousand rupees each; any shares remaining to be issued may
be issued, with the sanction of the Central Government from time to time, as
and when the Central Warehousing Corporation may deem fit:[Provided that the
Central Government may, from time to time, by order notified in the Official
Gazette, increase the authorised share capital of the Central Warehousing
Corporation to such extent and in such manner as that Government may
determine.] [Inserted by Act 42 of 1976, Section 3 (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)](2)[The
Central Government shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law
for the purpose,] [Substituted by act 42 of 1976, Section 3, for "The Central
Government shall" (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)] subscribe for forty per cent. of the
share capital issued at any time and the remaining sixty per cent. of the
share capital may be subscribed for within such period and in such proportion
as may be specified by the Central Government, by the following institutions,
namely:--(a)the State Bank;(b)other scheduled banks;(c)co-operative
societies;(d)insurance companies, investment trusts and other financial
institutions;(e)recognised associations and companies dealing in agricultural
produce or any notified commodity.(3)If any portion of the sixty per cent. of
the share capital referred to in sub-section (2) remains unallotted, it may be
subscribed for by the Central Government and the State Bank in such proportion
as may be agreed upon between them and in default of such agreement, as may be
determined by the Central Government.(4)The shares of the Central Warehousing
Corporation shall not be transferable except to the Central Government, [the
State Bank or any other scheduled bank] [Substituted by Act 42 of 1976,
Section 3, for "the State Bank, any scheduled bank" (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)], any
insurance company, any investment trust or other financial institution or any
co-operative society or any recognised association or company dealing in
agricultural produce or any notified commodity, in accordance with the
regulations made by the Central Warehousing Corporation under this Act.

### 5. [ Certain shares to be approved securities. [Substituted by Act No. 16
of 2015.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Acts mentioned in this section,
the shares of the Central Warehousing Corporation shall be deemed to
be-(a)included among other securities enumerated in section 20 of the Indian
Trusts Act, 1882; and(b)the approved securities for the purpose of the purpose
of the Insurance Act, 1938 and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949].

### 6. Management of Central Warehousing Corporation.

(1)The general superintendence and management of the affairs and business of
the Central Warehousing Corporation shall vest in a board of directors who,
with the assistance of an Executive Committee and a managing director, may
exercise all the powers and discharge all the functions which may be exercised
or discharged by the Central Warehousing Corporation under this Act.(2)The
board of directors shall act on business principles having regard to public
interest and shall be guided by such instructions on questions of policy as
may be given to them by the Central Government.(3)If any doubt arises as to
whether a question is or is not a question of policy, the decision of the
Central Government shall be final.

### 7. Directors.

(1)The board of directors referred to in section 6 shall consist of the
following, namely:--(a)six directors to be nominated by the Central
Government;(b)[---] [Omitted by The Warehousing Corporations Act,2005(45 of
2005) ](c)one director to be nominated by the State Bank;(d)one director to be
elected by other scheduled banks;(e)one director to be elected by co-operative
societies;(f)one director to be elected by insurance companies, investment
trusts and other financial institutions, recognised associations and companies
dealing in agricultural produce or notified commodities;(ff)[ three directors
to be appointed by the Central Government] [New clause added by The
Warehousing Corporations Act,2005(45 of 2005)](g)a managing director,
appointed by the Central Government in consultation with the directors
referred to in clauses (a) to (f):Provided that the three directors to be
elected under clauses (d), (e) and (f) may, for the first constitution of the
board of directors, be nominated by the Central Government in such manner as
to give representation to each class of institutions (whether they have become
shareholders of the Corporation or not) referred to in those clauses, but a
director so nominated shall hold office only until he is replaced by a
director elected as provided in that clause, and the director so elected shall
hold office only for so long as the director replaced would have held office
had he not been replaced.(2)The directors referred to in clauses (d), (e) and
(f) of sub-section (1) shall be elected in the prescribed manner.(3)If, within
the period prescribed in this behalf, or within such further period as the
Central Government may allow, the institutions referred to in clause (d) or
clause (e) or clause (f) of sub-section (1) fail to elect a director, the
Central Government may nominate a director to fill the vacancy.(4)The board of
directors shall have a Chairman [---] [Omitted by [and a Vice-Chairman] The
Warehousing Corporations Act,2005(45 of 2005)] who shall be appointed by the
Central Government from among the directors.(4A)[ The directors appointed
under clause (ff) of sub-section (1) shall be entitled to receive such salary
and allowances as the Central Warehousing Corporation may, with the approval
of the Central Government, determine.] [New sub-section added by The
Warehousing Corporations Act,2005(45 of 2005) ](5)The managing director
shall--(a)exercise such powers and perform such duties as the board of
directors or the Central Warehousing Corporation may entrust or delegate to
him; and(b)receive such salary and allowances as the Central Warehousing
Corporation may, with the approval of the Central Government, fix.(6)The
directors of the Central Warehousing Corporation other than the managing
director shall be entitled to receive by way of remuneration such sums as the
Central Warehousing Corporation may, with the approval of the Central
Government, fix:Provided that no official director shall be entitled to
receive any remuneration other than the allowances, if any, admissible to him
under the rules regulating his conditions of service.(7)The term of office of,
and the manner of filling casual vacancies among, the directors shall be such
as may be prescribed.

### 8. Disqualification for office of director of the Central Warehousing
Corporation.

A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a director
of the Central Warehousing Corporation--(i)if he is found to be a lunatic or
becomes of unsound mind; or(ii)if he is, or at any time has been, adjudicated
insolvent or has suspended payment of his debts or has compounded with his
creditors; or(iii)if he is or has been convicted of any offence involving
moral turpitude and sentenced in respect thereof to imprisonment for not less
than six months, unless a period of five years has elapsed from the date of
expiry of the sentence; or(iv)if he has been removed or dismissed from the
service of Government or a Corporation owned and controlled by the Government;
or(v)except in the case of [the directors appointed under clause (ff) of sub-
section (1) of section 7 and the managing director] [Substituted by [the
managing director]The Warehousing Corporations Act,2005(45 of 2005) ], if he
is a salaried official of the Central Warehousing Corporation or any State
Warehousing Corporation; or(vi)if he is personally interested in any
subsisting contract made with, or in any work being done for the Central
Warehousing Corporation except as a shareholder (other than a director) in any
public company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956):Provided that
where any such person is a shareholder, he shall disclose to the Central
Warehousing Corporation the nature and extent of shares held by him in such
company.

### 9. Removal of directors from office.

(1)The Central Government may, at any time in consultation with the Central
Warehousing Corporation, remove the managing director from office after giving
him a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed
removal.(2)The board of directors may remove from office any director
who--(a)is or has become subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in
section 8; or(b)is absent without leave of the board of directors for more
than three consecutive meetings of the board without cause sufficient in the
opinion of the board, to exonerate his absence.

### 10. Appointment of officers, etc., and their conditions of service.

(1)The Central Warehousing Corporation may appoint such officers and other
employees as it considers necessary for the efficient performance of its
functions.(2)Every person employed by the Central Warehousing Corporation
under this Act shall be subject to such conditions of service and shall be
entitled to such remuneration as may be determined by regulations made by the
Corporation under this Act.

### 11. Functions of Central Warehousing Corporation.

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Central Warehousing Corporation
may--(a)acquire and build godowns and warehouses at such suitable places in
India [or abroad] [Added by Warehousing Corporations Act, 2001(23 of 2001) ]
as it thinks fit;(b)run warehouses for the storage of agricultural produce,
seeds, manures, fertilizers, agricultural implements and notified commodities
offered by individuals, co-operative societies and other
institutions;(c)arrange facilities for the transport of agricultural produce,
seeds, manures, fertilizers, agricultural implements and notified commodities
to and from warehouses;(d)subscribe to the share capital of a State
Warehousing Corporation;(e)act as agent of the Government for the purposes of
the purchase, sale, storage and distribution of agricultural produce, seeds,
manures, fertilizers, agricultural implements and notified commodities; [--]
[Omitted by [and] Warehousing Corporations Act, 2001(23 of 2001) ](ea)[ enter
into, with the previous approval of the Central Government, joint ventures
with any corporation established by or under any Central Act or any State Act
or with any company formed and registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956) including foreign company or through its subsidiary companies, for
carrying out the purposes of this Act. [New clause added by Warehousing
Corporations Act, 2001(23 of 2001) ]Explanation. - For the purposes of this
clause, the expression "foreign company" shall have the meaning assigned to it
under clause (23A) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961); (eb)
establish subsidiary companies; and](f)carry out such other functions as may
be prescribed.

### 12. Executive Committee.

(1)There shall be an Executive Committee of the Central Warehousing
Corporation which shall consist of--(a)the Chairman [---] [Certain words
omitted by The Warehousing Corporations Act,2005(45 of 2005) ] of the board of
directors;(b)the managing director; and(c)two other directors chosen by the
Corporation in the prescribed manner.(2)[ The Chairman of the board of
directors shall be the Chairman of the Executive Committee] [Substituted
by[The Chairman and the Vice-Chairman of the board of directors shall be the
Chairman and the Vice-Chairman respectively of the Executive Committee] The
Warehousing Corporations Act,2005(45 of 2005) ](3)Subject to the general
control, direction and superintendence of the board of directors, the
Executive Committee shall be competent to deal with any matter within the
competence of the Central Warehousing Corporation.

### 13. Meetings of the Corporation.

(1)The annual general meeting of the Central Warehousing Corporation
(hereinafter referred to as the annual general meeting) shall be held every
year either at its head-office or at any other office of the Corporation
within six months of the close of the financial year, and any other general
meeting may be convened by the board of directors at any other time.(2)The
shareholders present at the annual general meeting shall be entitled to
discuss the annual accounts, the report of the board of directors on the
working of the Corporation during the year under report, as well as the
auditors, report on the annual balance-sheet and accounts.(3)The board of
directors of the Central Warehousing Corporation shall, on the requisition of
one-third of the number of shareholders of the Corporation, call a special
meeting of the Corporation.(4)The requisition for a special meeting under sub-
section (3) shall state the object of the meeting, and shall be signed by the
requisitionists and deposited at the head-office of the Corporation, and may
consist of several documents in like form each signed by one or more
requisitionists.(5)If the board of directors of the Central Warehousing
Corporation do not proceed within twenty-one days from the date of the
requisition being so deposited to cause the special meeting to be called, the
requisitionists, or a majority of them, may, themselves call the meeting, but
in either case, the meeting so called shall be held within three months from
the date of the deposit of the requisition.(6)The Central Warehousing
Corporation shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction
of business at its meetings (including the quorum at meetings) as may be
provided by regulations made by the Central Warehousing Corporation under this
Act.

### 14. Grants and loans by the Central Government.

(1)The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by
law in this behalf, pay to the Central Warehousing Corporation for the
purposes of either fund maintained by the Corporation--(a)by way of grants,
such sums of money as the Central Government may consider necessary; and(b)by
way of loans, such grants and loans as the central Government may make for the
purposes of the Warehousing fund; and(2)When making a payment under sub-
section (1), the Central Government shall specify the fund for the purposes of
which the payment is made.

### 15. Corporation to maintain two funds.

The Central Warehousing Corporation shall maintain two separate funds,
namely:--(a)the Central Warehousing Fund (hereinafter referred to as the
Warehousing Fund); and(b)the General Fund.

### 16. Warehousing Fund.

(1)To the Warehousing Fund shall be credited--(a)all moneys and other
securities transferred to the Central Warehousing Corporation under clause (c)
of sub-section (2) of section 43;(b)such grants and loans as the Central
Government way make for the purposes of the Warehousing Fund; and(c)such sums
of money as may, from time to time, be realised out of the loans made from the
Warehousing Fund or from interest on loans or dividends on investments made
from that fund.(2)The Warehousing Fund shall be applied--(a)for advancing
loans to State Governments on such terms and conditions as the Central
Warehousing Corporation may deem fit for the purpose of enabling them to
subscribe to the share capital of State Warehousing Corporations;(b)for
advancing loans and granting subsidies to State Warehousing Corporations or to
State Governments on such terms and conditions as the Central Warehousing
Corporation may deem fit for the purpose of promoting the warehousing and
storage of agricultural produce and notified commodities, otherwise than
through co-operative societies;(c)[ for meeting the expenses incurred in
relation to the training of personnel, or publicity and propaganda, for the
purpose of promoting warehousing and storage of agricultural produce and
notified commodities; [Inserted by Act 42 of 1976, Section 4 (w.e.f.
24-3-1976)](d)for meeting the expenses, including the salary, allowances and
other remuneration of the officers and other employees, incurred in relation
to the administration of the Warehousing Fund.]

### 17. Central Fund.

(1)To the General Fund shall be credited--(a)all sums received by the Central
Warehousing Corporation other than those referred to in sub-section (1) of
section 16; and(b)such grants and loans as the Central Government may make for
the purposes of the General Fund.(2)The General Fund shall be applied--(a)for
meeting the salary, allowances and other remuneration of the officers and
other employees of the Central Warehousing Corporation;(b)for meeting the
other administrative expenses of the Corporation; and(c)for carrying out the
purposes of this Act;[Provided that the General Fund shall not be applied for
meeting the expenses referred to in clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section
(2) of section 16.] [Inserted by Act 42 of 1976 s. 5 (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)]

## Chapter III  
State Warehousing Corporations

### 18. State Warehousing Corporations.

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette and with
the approval of the Central Warehousing Corporation, establish a Warehousing
Corporation for the State under such name as may be specified in the
notification.(2)A State Warehousing Corporation established under sub-section
(1) shall be a body corporate by the name notified under that sub-section,
having perpetual succession and a common seal, with power to acquire, hold and
dispose of property and to contract, and may, by the said name, sue and be
sued.(3)The head-office of a State Warehousing Corporation shall be at such
place within the State as may be notified in the Official
Gazette.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1), (2) and
(3), it shall not be necessary for the State Government to establish a
Corporation under sub-section (1) where, under clause (g) of sub-section (2)
of section 43, a Corporation is deemed to be established for that State under
this Act.

### 19. Share capital and shareholders.

(1)The authorised capital of a State Warehousing Corporation shall be such sum
not exceeding two crores of rupees as may be prescribed, divided into shares
of the face value of one hundred rupees each, of which such number as may be
determined by the Corporation in consultation with the State Government shall
be issued in the first instance and the remaining shares may be issued, from
time to time, as and when the Corporation may deem fit after consultation with
the Central Warehousing Corporation and with the sanction of the State
Government:[Provided that in respect of any State Warehousing Corporation the
Central Government may, after consultation with the State Government
concerned, from time to time and by order notified in the Official Gazette,
increase the maximum limit of the authorised capital aforesaid to such extent
and in such manner as the Central Government may determine.] [Inserted by Act
42 of 1976, Section 6 (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)](2)Of the share capital issued in the
first instance and of any subsequent issue of such capital, the Central
Warehousing Corporation shall, in any case where the State Government has
subscribed for fifty per cent. of such capital, subscribe for the remaining
fifty per cent. of the capital.

### 20. Management of a state Warehousing Corporation.

(1)The general superintendence and management of the affairs of a State
Warehousing Corporation shall vest in a board of directors which shall consist
of the following, namely:--(a)five directors nominated by the Central
Warehousing Corporation, of whom one shall be nominated in consultation with
the State Bank and one at least shall be a non-official;(b)five directors
nominated by the State Government; and(c)a managing director, appointed by the
State Government in consultation with the directors referred to in clauses (a)
and (b) and [under intimation to] [Substituted by [with the previous approval
of] Warehousing Corporations Act, 2001(23 of 2001) ] the Central Warehousing
Corporation.(2)The Chairman of the board of directors shall be appointed by
the State Government from among the directors of the State Warehousing
Corporation [under intimation to] [Substituted by [with the previous approval
of]Warehousing Corporations Act, 2001(23 of 2001) ] the Central Warehousing
Corporation.(3)The managing director shall--(a)exercise such powers and
perform such duties as the board of directors or the State Warehousing
Corporation may entrust or delegate to him; and(b)receive such salary and
allowances as the State Warehousing Corporation may, in consultation with the
Central Warehousing Corporation, and with previous approval of the State
Government, fix.(4)The board of directors shall act on business principles
having regard to public interest and shall be guided by such instructions on
questions of policy as may be given to them by the State Government or the
Central Warehousing Corporation.(5)If any doubt arises as to whether a
question is or is not a question of policy, or, if the State Government and
the Central Warehousing Corporation give conflicting instructions, the matter
shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision thereon shall be
final.(6)The directors of a State Warehousing Corporation, other than the
managing director, shall be entitled to receive by way of remuneration such
sums as may be prescribed:Provided that no official director shall be entitled
to receive any remuneration other than any allowances admissible to him under
the rules regulating his conditions of service.(7)The term of office of, and
the manner of filling casual vacancies among, directors shall be such as may
be prescribed.

### 21. Disqualification for office of director of the corporation.

A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a director
of a State Warehousing Corporation--(i)if he is found to be a lunatic or
becomes of unsound mind; or(ii)if he is, or at any time has been, adjudicated
insolvent or has suspended payment of his debts or has compounded with his
creditors; or(iii)if he is or has been convicted of any offence involving
moral turpitude and sentenced in respect thereof to imprisonment for not less
than six months, unless a period of five years has elapsed from the date of
expiry of the sentence; or(iv)if he has been removed or dismissed from service
of Government or a corporation owned and controlled by the Government;
or(v)except in the case of the managing director, if he is a salaried official
of [---] [Certain words omitted by Warehousing Corporations Act, 2001(23 of
2001) ] a State Warehousing Corporation; or(vi)if he is personally interested
in a subsisting contract made with, or in any work being done for, the State
Warehousing Corporation except as a shareholder (other than a director) in any
public company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956):Provided that
where any such person is a shareholder, he shall disclose to the Warehousing
Corporation the nature and extent of the shares held by him in such company.

### 22. Removal of directors from office.

(1)The State Government may, at any time, [under intimation to] [Substituted
by [with the previous approval of] Warehousing Corporations Act, 2001(23 of
2001) ] the Central Warehousing Corporation, remove the managing director from
office after giving him a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the
proposed removal.(2)The board of directors may remove from office any director
who--(a)is or has become subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in
section 21; or(b)is absent without leave of the board of directors for more
than three consecutive meetings of the board without cause sufficient, in the
opinion of the board, to exonerate his absence.

### 23. Appointment of officers, etc., and their conditions of service.

(1)A State Warehousing Corporation may appoint such officers and other
employees as it considers necessary for the efficient performance of its
functions.(2)Every person employed by a State Warehousing Corporation under
this Act shall be subject to such conditions of service and shall be entitled
to such remuneration as may be determined by regulations made by the
Corporation under this Act.

### 24. Functions of the State Warehousing Corporation.

Subject to the provisions of this Act, a State Warehousing Corporation
may--(a)acquire and build godowns and warehouses at such places within the
State as it may, [after consultation with] [Substituted by [with the previous
approval of] Warehousing Corporations Act, 2001(23 of 2001) ] the Central
Warehousing Corporation, determine;(b)run warehouses in the State for the
storage of agricultural produce, seeds, manures, fertilizers, agricultural
implements and notified commodities;(c)arrange facilities for the transport of
agricultural produce, seeds, manures, fertilizers, agricultural implements and
notified commodities to and from warehouses;(d)act as an agent of the Central
Warehousing Corporation or of the Government for the purposes of the purchase,
sale, storage and distribution, of agricultural produce, seeds, manures,
fertilizers, agricultural implements and notified commodities; [--] [Omitted
by [and] Warehousing Corporations Act, 2001(23 of 2001) ](da)[ enter into,
with the previous approval of the State Government, joint ventures with the
Central Warehousing Corporation; and] [New clause added by Warehousing
Corporations Act, 2001(23 of 2001) ](e)carry out such other functions as may
be prescribed.

### 25. Executive Committee.

(1)There shall be an Executive Committee of a State Warehousing Corporation
which shall consist of--(a)the Chairman of the board of directors;(b)the
managing director; and(c)three other directors chosen in the prescribed
manner, of whom one shall be a director referred to in clause (a) of sub-
section (1) of section 20.(2)The Chairman of the board of directors shall be
the Chairman of the Executive Committee.(3)Subject to any general or special
directions as the board of directors may, from time to time, give, the
Executive Committee shall be competent to deal with any matter within the
competence of the State Warehousing Corporation.

## Chapter IV  
Finance, Accounts And Audit

### 26. Submission of programme of activities and financial estimates.

(1)Every Warehousing Corporation shall prepare before the commencement of each
year a statement of programme of its activities during the forthcoming year as
well as a financial estimate in respect thereof.(2)A statement prepared under
sub-section (1) shall, not later than three months before the commencement of
each year, be submitted for approval--(a)in the case of the Central
Warehousing Corporation, to the Central Government;(b)in the case of a State
Warehousing Corporation, to the Central Warehousing Corporation and the State
Government.(3)The statement and the financial estimate of a Warehousing
Corporation referred to in sub-section (1) may, with the approval of the
Central Government in the case of the Central Warehousing Corporation, or with
the approval of the Central Warehousing Corporation and the State Government
in the case of a State Warehousing Corporation, be revised by the Warehousing
Corporation.

### 27. Borrowing powers of Warehousing Corporation.

(1)A Warehousing Corporation may, in consultation with the Reserve Bank and
with the previous approval of the appropriate Government, issue and sell bonds
and debentures carrying interest for the purpose of raising funds:Provided
that the total amount of bonds and debentures issued and outstanding and of
the other borrowings of the Corporation shall not at any time exceed ten times
the amount of the paid-up share capital and the reserve fund of the
Corporation.(2)A Warehousing Corporation may, for the purpose of carrying out
its functions under this Act, borrow money--(i)from the Reserve Bank,
or(ii)from the State Bank, for such periods for which, and upon any of the
securities against which, it is authorised to advance and lend moneys, under
the provisions of [the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955), or]
[Substituted by Act 42 of 1976, Section 7, for certain words (w.e.f.
24-3-1976)](iii)[ from any [scheduled bank] [Inserted by Act 42 of 1976,
Section 7, (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)] or(iv)from such insurance company, investment
trust or other financial institution as may be approved by the Central
Government in this behalf.](3)Subject to the proviso to sub-section (1), the
Central Warehousing Corporation may borrow money from the Central Government
and a State Warehousing Corporation may borrow money from the State Government
and the Central Warehousing Corporation on such securities and on such terms
and conditions as may be agreed upon between the borrowing corporation and the
lender, in each case.(4)[ The bonds and debentures of a State Warehousing
Corporation may be guaranteed by the appropriate Government on the
recommendation of the board of directors of the State Warehousing Corporation
at the time such bonds or debentures are issued.] [Substituted by Act No. 16
of 2015.]

### 28. Deposit account.

All moneys belonging to a Warehousing Corporation shall be deposited in the
Reserve Bank or the State Bank [or any nationalised bank] [Inserted by Act 42
of 1976, Section 8, (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)] or, subject to any rules made under
this Act, in [any other scheduled bank] [Substituted by Act 42 of 1976,
Section 8, for "any scheduled bank] or co-operative bank.

### 29. Investment of funds.

A Warehousing Corporation may invest its funds in the securities of the
Central or any State Government or in such other manner as may be prescribed
by the appropriate Government.

### 30. Disposal of profits.

(1)Every Warehousing Corporation shall establish a reserve fund out of its
annual net profits.(2)After making provision for bad and doubtful debts,
depreciation on assets and all other matters which are usually provided for by
companies registered and incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956), a Warehousing Corporation may, out of its net annual profits, declare a
dividend:[* * *] [Omitted by Act No. 16 of 2015.].

### 31. Accounts and audit of Warehousing Corporation.

(1)Every Warehousing Corporation shall maintain proper accounts and other
relevant records and prepare an annual statement of accounts including the
profit and loss account and the balance sheet in such form as may be
prescribed:Provided that, in the case of the Central Warehousing Corporation,
the accounts relating to the Warehousing Fund and the General Fund shall be
maintained separately.(2)The accounts of a Warehousing Corporation shall be
audited by an auditor duly qualified to act as an auditor of companies under
section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).(3)The said auditor shall
be appointed by the appropriate Government on the advice of the Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India.(4)The auditor shall be supplied with a copy of
the annual balance sheet and the profit and loss account of the Warehousing
Corporation and it shall be his duty to examine them together with the
accounts and vouchers relating thereto, and he shall have a list delivered to
him of all books kept by the Corporation and shall at all reasonable times
have access to the books, accounts and other documents of the Corporation and
may require from any officer of the Corporation such information and
explanation as the auditor may think necessary for the performance of his
duties as auditor.(5)The auditor shall make a report to the shareholders on
the accounts examined by him and on the annual balance sheet and the profit
and loss account and in every such report, he shall state whether in his
opinion the accounts give a true and fair view--(a)in the case of the balance
sheet, of the state of the Corporation's affairs at the end of its financial
year, and(b)in the case of the profit and loss account, of the profit or loss
for its financial year, and in case he has called for an explanation or
information from the officers, whether it has been given and whether it is
satisfactory.(6)The appropriate Government may, after consultation with the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India at any time issue directions to the
auditor requiring him to report to the appropriate Government upon the
adequacy of measures taken by a Warehousing Corporation for the protection of
its shareholders and creditors or upon the sufficiency of his procedure in
auditing the accounts of the Corporation and may enlarge or extend the scope
of the audit or direct that a different procedure in audit may be adopted or
direct that any other examination may be made by the auditor if in the opinion
of the appropriate Government public interest so requires.(7)A Warehousing
Corporation shall send a copy of every report of the auditor to the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and to the Central Government at
least one month before it is placed before the shareholders.(8)Notwithstanding
anything hereinbefore contained in this section, the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India may, either of his own motion or on a request received in
this behalf from the appropriate Government, undertake in respect of a
Warehousing Corporation such audit and at such time as he may consider
necessary:[* * *] [Omitted by Act No. 16 of 2015.].(9)The Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India and any person authorised by him in connection with
the audit of the accounts of a Warehousing Corporation shall have the same
rights, privileges and authority in connection with such audit as the
Comptroller and Auditor-General has in connection with the audit of Government
accounts and in particular, shall have the right to demand the production of
books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and papers and to
inspect the office of the Corporation.(10)The annual accounts of a Warehousing
Corporation together with the audit report thereon shall be placed before the
annual general meeting of the Corporation within six months of the close of
the financial year.(11)Every audit report under this section shall be
forwarded to the appropriate Government within a month of its being placed
before the annual general meeting and that Government shall as soon thereafter
as may be cause the same to be laid before both Houses of Parliament or the
Legislature of the State, as the case may be.

### 31A. [ Returns and reports. [Inserted by Act 42 of 1976, Section 9 (w.e.f.
24-3-1976)]

A Warehousing Corporation shall furnish to the appropriate Government such
returns, statistics, accounts and other information with respect to its
property or activities as that Government may, from time to time, require.]

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 32. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate acts and proceedings of Warehousing
Corporations.

No act or proceeding of a Warehousing Corporation shall be invalid by reason
only of the existence of any vacancy among its directors or any defect in the
constitution thereof.

### 33. Delegation.

A Warehousing Corporation may, by general or special order in writing,
delegate to the Secretary or other officer of the Corporation, subject to such
conditions and limitations, if any, as may be specified in the order, such of
its powers and functions under this Act as it may deem necessary for the
efficient performance of its functions.

### 34. Voting rights of shareholders.

In any meeting of the shareholders of a Warehousing Corporation, every member
shall have one vote in respect of each share held by him in the Corporation.

### 35. Disputes between Central Warehousing Corporation and State Warehousing
Corporation.

If there is any difference of opinion between the Central Warehousing
Corporation and a State Warehousing Corporation regarding their respective
functions and powers under this Act, such difference shall be referred to the
Central Government whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 36. Declaration of fidelity and secrecy.

Every director, auditor, officer or other employee of a Warehousing
Corporation shall, before entering upon his duties, make a declaration of
fidelity and secrecy in the form set out in the Schedule.

### 37. Indemnity of directors.

(1)Every director of a Warehousing Corporation shall be indemnified by the
Corporation concerned against all losses and expenses incurred in the
discharge of his duties except such as are caused by his own wilful act or
default.(2)A director of a Warehousing Corporation shall not be responsible
for any other director or for any officer or other employee of the Corporation
or for any loss or expense resulting to the Corporation by the insufficiency
or deficiency of value of, or title to, any property or security acquired or
taken on behalf of the Corporation in good faith, or by the wrongful act of
any person under obligation to the Corporation or by anything done in good
faith in the execution of the duties of his office or in relation thereto.

### 38. Offences.

(1)Whoever, without the consent in writing of a Warehousing Corporation, uses
the name of that Corporation in any prospectus or advertisement, shall be
punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.(2)No court shall take
cognizance of any offence under sub-section (1) otherwise than on a complaint
in writing by an officer authorised in this behalf by the Warehousing
Corporation concerned.

### 39. Provisions relating to income-tax and super-tax.

For the purposes of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), a Warehousing
Corporation shall be deemed to be a company within the meaning of that Act and
shall be liable to income-tax and super-tax accordingly on its income, profits
and gains:[* * *] [Omitted by Act No. 16 of 2015.].[* * *] [Omitted by Act No.
16 of 2015.].

### 40. Winding up of Warehousing Corporations.

No provision of law relating to the winding up of companies or corporations
shall apply to a Warehousing Corporation and any such Corporation shall not be
placed in liquidation save by order of the appropriate Government and in such
manner as it may direct.

### 41. Power to make rules.

(1)The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for--(a)the
additional functions which a Warehousing Corporation may perform;(b)the manner
of nomination and election of the directors of the Central Warehousing
Corporation and the period within which such directors shall be nominated or
elected;(c)the term of office of, and the manner of filling casual vacancies
among, and the remuneration payable to, the directors of a Warehousing
Corporation;(d)the manner of choosing directors on the Executive Committee of
a Warehousing Corporation;(e)the authorised capital of a State Warehousing
Corporation [within the maximum limit specified by or under sub-section (1) of
section 19] [Substituted by Act 42 of 1976, Section 10, for certain words
(w.e.f. 24-3-1976)];(f)the form of the annual statement of accounts and the
balance-sheet to be prepared by a Warehousing Corporation;(g)the deposit of
moneys of a Warehousing Corporation in a scheduled bank or a co-operative
bank;(h)the manner of issuing shares of a Warehousing Corporation, the calls
to be made in respect thereof, and all other matters incidental to the issue
of shares;(i)[ the form and manner in which returns, statistics, accounts and
other information are to be furnished, under section 31A, by a Warehousing
Corporation;] [Inserted by Act 42 of 1976, Section 10 (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)](j)[]
[Cl. (i) re-lettered as cl. (j) thereof by Act 42 of 1976 s. 10 (w.e.f.
24-3-1976)] any other matter which has to be or may be prescribed.(3)Every
rule made by the Central Government under this section shall be laid as soon
as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament while it is in
session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and [if before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session] [Substituted by Act 42 of 1976,
Section 10, for certain words (w.e.f. 24-3-1976)] or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so
however that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 42. Power of Warehousing Corporations to make regulations.

(1)A Warehousing Corporation may, with the previous sanction of the
appropriate Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
regulations not inconsistent with this Act and the rules made thereunder to
provide for all matters for which provision is necessary or expedient for the
purposes of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations
may provide for--(a)the conditions of service of, and the remuneration payable
to, the officers and other employees of a Warehousing Corporation;(b)the
manner in which, and the conditions subject to which, shares of the Central
Warehousing Corporation may be transferred;(c)the manner in which meetings of
a Warehousing Corporation and the Executive Committee thereof shall be
convened, the fees for attending such meetings and the procedure to be
followed thereat;(d)the duties and conduct of officers and employees of a
Warehousing Corporation;(e)the powers and duties which may be entrusted or
delegated to the managing director of a Warehousing Corporation;(f)generally,
the efficient conduct of the affairs of a Warehousing Corporation.(3)The
appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, rescind
any regulation which it has sanctioned and thereupon the regulation shall
cease to have effect.

Additional Information6  
---  
  
For Central Warehousing Corporation (General) Regn. 1965 and C.W.C (Staff)
Regulations 1966, see Gazette of India, 1965, Pt. II, Section 3(ii), p. 3813
and C.W.C (Staff) Regulations 1966, see Gazette of India, 1966, Pt. II,
Section 3(ii), p. 3197 respectively; for general and Staff Regulations in
Andhra Pradesh, see A.P. Gaz. 1965,, Pt. II, (R.S.) pp. 503 and 509; for
General and Staff Regulations in Kerala, see Kerala Gaz., 23-6-1964, Pt. IV,
No. 25; for Delegation of Authority and Meeting Regulations of 1964 in
Maharashtra State, see Maha. Gaz., 18-3-1965, Pt. IV-C, p. 359 and for Madras
State Warehousing Corporations General and Staff Regualtions 1965, see Ft. St.
Geo.Gaz., 1966, Pt. V, page 837; Haryana Warehousing Corporation (Officers and
Staff) Regulations, 1994 - Hary G. G., 28-6-94, Pt. III, P. 173 (No. 26).  
---  
  
### 43. Repeal and savings.

(1)With effect from the date on which the Central Warehousing Corporation is
established under section 3, the Agricultural Produce (Development and
Warehousing) Corporations Act, 1956 (28 of 1956), in so far as it has not been
repealed by the National Co-operative Development Corporation Act, 1962 (26 of
1962), shall stand repealed:(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,--(a)the shares
allotted and the share certificates issued by the Central Warehousing
Corporation established under the repealed Act (hereinafter referred to as the
said Corporation) shall be deemed to have been allotted and issued by the
Corporation established under section 3 of this Act as if this Act had been in
force on the day on which the shares were allotted and the share certificates
were issued;(b)every shareholder of the said Corporation shall become the
holder of as many shares in the Corporation established under section 3 of
this Act as are equivalent in number and value to the shares held by him in
the said Corporation;(c)all moneys and other securities belonging to the
National Warehousing Development Fund which, immediately before the said date,
was maintained by the said Corporation shall stand transferred to and be
maintained by the Corporation established under section 3 of this
Act;(d)anything done or any action taken (including any appointment,
nomination, delegation, rule or regulation made) under the repealed Act shall,
in so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be deemed
to have been done or taken under this Act;(e)every share held by the said
Corporation in a State Warehousing Corporation under the repealed Act shall be
deemed to be a share held by the Corporation established under section 3 of
this Act in the corresponding State Warehousing Corporation deemed to be
established under this Act;(f)all rights, liabilities and obligations of the
said Corporation, whether arising out of any contract or otherwise, shall be
the rights, liabilities and obligations respectively of the Corporation
established under section 3 of this Act;(g)a State Warehousing Corporation
established for a State under the repealed Act shall be deemed to be the State
Warehousing Corporation established for that State under this Act.The
Schedule(See section 36)DECLARATION OF FIDELITY AND SECRECYI,.......... ,
declare that I will faithfully, truly and to the best of my judgment, skill
and ability execute and perform the duties which are required of me as a
director, officer, employee or auditor (as the case may be) of the Warehousing
Corporation and which properly relate to the office or position in the said
Corporation held by me. I further declare that I will not communicate or allow
to be communicated to any person not legally entitled thereto any information
relating to the affairs of the said Corporation nor will I allow any such
person to inspect or have access to any books or documents belonging to, or in
the possession of, the Corporation and relating to the business of the
Corporation. Signature Signature Signature Signed before me Date

