## Union of India - Act

## The Warehousing Corporations (Supplementary) Act, 1965

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Warehousing Corporations (Supplementary) Act, 1965

## Act 20 of 1965

  * Published in Gazette of India on 22 September 1965 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 September 1965.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to supplement the provisions of the Warehousing Corporations Act,
1962.WHEREAS, in pursuance of clause (1) of article 252 of the Constitution,
resolutions have been passed by the Legislatures of certain State to the
effect that storage of commodities other than those covered by the Warehousing
Corporations Act, 1962 (58 of 1962), in warehouses run by the corporations
established under that Act, shall be regulated in those States by Parliament
by law.AND WHEREAS, in consequence thereof it is necessary to supplement the
provisions of the said Warehousing Corporations Act for the purposes
hereinafter appearing;BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixteenth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, application and commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Warehousing Corporations (Supplementary) Act,
1965.(2)It shall apply to the State specified in the Schedule:Provided that
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, add the
name of any other State to the Schedule in respect whereof resolutions have
been passed by the Legislatures of those States adopting this Act under clause
(1) of article 252 of the Constitution in respect of the storage of
commodities other than those covered by the Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962
(58 of 1962), and on the issue of any such notification the States so added
shall be deem to be States specified in the Schedule within the meaning of
this sub-section.(3)It shall come into force on such date1, as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Application of the Act with respect to notified commodities.-

The Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962 (58 of 1962), shall, in its application
to the States for the time being specified in the Schedule, have effect as if
in clause (e) of section 2 of that Act the words and figures "being a
commodity with respect to which Parliament has power to make laws by virtue of
entry 33 in List III in the Seventh Schedule to Constitution" had been
omitted.

