## Union of India - Act

## The Wild Life (Protection) Rules, 1995

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Wild Life (Protection) Rules, 1995

## Rule THE-WILD-LIFE-PROTECTION-RULES-1995 of 1995

  * Published on 7 April 1995 
  * Commenced on 7 April 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 April 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Wild Life (Protection) Rules, 1995Published vide Notification G.S.R.
348(E), dated 7.4.1995, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part
2, Section 3(i), dated 18.4.1995.

### 1078.

In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (k) of sub-section (1) of
section 63 of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (53 of 1972), the Central
Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Wild
Life (Protection) Rules, 1995.

(2)They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions .-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a)"Act" means the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (53 of 1972);(b)"Section"
means the section of the Act.

### 3. The manner of the notice under clause (c) of section 55.-(1) The notice
to the Central Government or the State Government or any authorised officer,
as the case may be, shall be given in Form "A" annexed to these rules.

(2)The person giving notice to the Central Government or the State Government
or any authorised officer shall send the notice by registered post to-(a)The
Director of Wild Life Preservation, Government of India in the Ministry of
Environment and Forests, New Delhi; and(b)(i)The Secretary to the concerned
State Government/Union Territory in-charge of Wild Life, or(ii)The Chief Wild
Life Warden of the concerned State Government/Union Territory, or(iii)Any
authorised officer of State Government/Union Territory.FORM "A"(See sub-rule
(1) of rule 3)From:......To:......Notice under section 55 of the Wild Life
(Protection) Act, 1972Whereas an offence under the Wild Life (Protection) Act,
1972 has been committed/is being committed by [Full name(s) and complete
address(es)And whereas the brief facts of the offence(s) are enclosed.I/We
hereby give notice of 60 days under section 55 of the Wild Life (Protection)
Act, 1972 of my/our intention to file a complaint in the Court of for
violation of section (s) ..of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972.I am/We are
enclosing the following documents as evidence of proof of the violation of the
said Act. (Documentary evidence may include photographs/reports/statements of
witness(es) for enabling enquiry into the alleged violation/offence).

