## International Treaty - Act

## Treaty Between The Republic of India and The Russian Federation on Transfer
of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Treaty Between The Republic of India and The Russian Federation on Transfer
of Sentenced Persons

## Rule TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-RUSSIAN-FEDERATION-ON-
TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS of 2015

  * Published on 22 April 2015 
  * Commenced on 22 April 2015 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 April 2015.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Treaty Between The Republic of India and The Russian Federation on Transfer of
Sentenced PersonsPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R. 404(E), dated 22nd
April, 2015G.S.R. 404(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
sections d(1) and (2) of section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003
(49 of 2003), the Central Government having ratified the Agreement on the 01st
January, 2014, hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply
to the Russian Federation with effect from the 21st March, 2015, and notifies
the full text of the treaty entered into between the Government of the
Republic of India and the Russian Federation for the transfer of prisoners
between that country and India as follows, namely :-The Republic of India and
The Russian Federation, hereinafter referred to as the "Contracting
States",Aspiring to facilitate the process of social rehabilitation of
sentenced persons,Considering that this objective should be fulfilled by
giving foreign nationals, who have been convicted and sentenced as a result of
their commission of a criminal offence, the opportunity to serve their
sentences in their country of nationality;Hereby have agreed as
follows:Article 1Scope of the Treaty

### 1. The Contracting States shall, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this Treaty, provide each other with the widest measure of
assistance in matters related to transfer of sentenced persons.

### 2. A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be
transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State in accordance with
the provisions of this Treaty in order to serve the sentence imposed. For that
end such person or his/her legal representative may apply to either
Transferring State or Receiving State for his/her transfer in accordance with
the provisions of this Treaty.

### 3. The request for transfer may be submitted by either Transferring State
or Receiving State.

Article 2DefinitionsFor the purposes of this Treaty, the following terms shall
mean:(1)"judgement" - a final court decision imposing sentence for a crime
committed. The term "judgement" shall also include final court decisions
imposing death penalty, later substituted for a fixed term of deprivation of
liberty or for life imprisonment in Transferring State;(2)"sentence" - any
punishment including deprivation of liberty, imposed by judgement of criminal
court;(3)"sentenced person" - a person serving a sentence in the form of
deprivation of liberty, imposed by a judgement of criminal
court;(4)"Transferring State" - a State, The court of which has sentenced a
person that may be transferred or has been transferred;(5)"Receiving State" -
a State, to which the sentenced person may be transferred or has been
transferred in order to serve the sentence.Article 3Conditions for Transfer

### 1\. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Treaty only on the
following conditions:

(1)the sentenced person is a national of the Receiving State;(2)the judgement
is final, and there are no proceedings pending in respect of this person;(3)at
the time of receipt of request for transfer, the part of sentence to be served
by the sentenced person is not less than six months. In exceptional cases, the
Contracting States may agree on transfer if the remaining term of sentence is
less than that specified above;(4)there is a written consent by the sentenced
person for his/her transfer for execution of sentence in the territory of the
Receiving State and in case of his/her inability to freely express his/her
will due to age, physical or mental condition - a written consent by his/her
legal representative. The Transferring State shall provide a consular officer
or any other official of the Receiving State with an opportunity to verify
that the consent for transfer or rejection thereof was given voluntarily and
with understanding of legal consequences of such transfer;(5)the crime for
which the sentence was imposed are punishable by deprivation of liberty
according to criminal laws of the Receiving State;(6)Transferring State and
Receiving State have clearly given their consent for transfer.

### 2\. The transfer may be rejected if:

(1)the Transferring State considers that transfer of the person would impair
its sovereignty, security, public order or other essential interests;(2)the
sentenced person cannot be transferred according to the law of either of the
Contracting States;(3)the sentenced person has not fulfilled any financial
obligations arising from a court judgement, or if, in the opinion of
Transferring State, the guarantees of fulfilment of such obligations are
insufficient;(4)the death sentence has been imposed on the sentenced
person;(5)the sentence cannot be executed in the Receiving State due to
reasons stipulated in the laws of such State.Article 4Central Authorities

### 1\. The Central Authorities in charge of the implementation of this Treaty
are:

For the Republic of India - Ministry of Home Affairs of the Republic of
India.For the Russian Federation - Ministry of Justice of the Russian
Federation.

### 2\. When implementing this Treaty, the Central Authorities shall
communicate directly.

### 3\. The Contracting State shall immediately notify the other Contracting
State of any changes connected with its respective Central Authority through
diplomatic channels.

Article 5Obligation to Provide Information

### 1\. Any sentenced person to whom this Treaty may be applied shall be
informed by the Transferring State of the contents of this Treaty as well as
of legal consequences of such transfer.

### 2\. If the sentenced person applies to the Transferring State for his/her
transfer, that State shall promptly inform the Receiving State.

### 3\. Such notice shall include:

(1)surname, name (patronymic), date and place of birth, nationality of the
sentenced person;(2)information about permanent place of residence of the
sentenced person in the Receiving state, if known;(3)a statement of the facts,
upon which the sentence was based;(4)the nature, duration and date of
commencement of the sentence;(5)a certified copy of the judgement;(6)the text
of applicable provisions of the criminal laws;(7)report of the medical
condition of the sentenced person and other relevant information.

### 4\. If the sentenced person applies to the Receiving State for transfer
pursuant to the provisions hereof, the Transferring State shall provide the
Receiving State on request with the information specified in paragraph 3 of
this Article.

### 5\. The sentenced person shall be informed in writing of any action taken
by the Receiving State or by the Transferring State under the preceding
paragraphs as well as of any decision taken by either of The Contracting
States on request for transfer.

Article 6Requests and Responses

### 1\. Requests for transfer and responses to them shall be made in writing
and forwarded to the Central Authorities appointed in accordance with this
Treaty.

### 2\. The Requested State shall promptly inform the Requesting State of its
decision to accept or reject the request of transfer.

### 3\. The request shall contain information about the sentenced person
(surname, name (patronymic), date and place of birth), and shall be
accompanied by the documents indicating the nationality of the sentenced
person and his/her permanent place of residence.

### 4\. The Central Authority of the Transferring State shall also accompany
the request with:

(1)certified copies of the judgement and all relevant court decisions and a
document confirming that the judgement has become final;(2)the document
pertaining to enforcement of the judgement including the part of sentence
served in the form of deprivation of liberty and the part of sentence to be
served as well as the document indicating sentenced person's behaviour while
serving the sentence;(3)the text of provisions of the criminal law on account
of which the person was sentenced;(4)a written consent of the sentenced person
for his/her transfer for execution of a sentence in the territory of the
Receiving State and in case of his/her inability to freely express his/her
will due to age, physical or mental condition - a written consent of his/her
legal representative;(5)The document indicating the financial implications
imposed by the judgement on the sentenced persons;(6)A report on the medical
condition of the sentenced person and on the ability of the sentenced person
to be transferred to the territory of the Receiving State.

### 5\. The Central Authority of the Receiving State in case of agreeing to
the transfer request, may provide the following information:-

(1)a written consent to receive the sentenced person to serve the remaining
sentence;(2)authenticated copy of decision by the court or any other Competent
Authority regarding applicable laws relating to the duration and enforcement
of sentence in the Receiving State after the sentenced persons
transfer;(3)certified extracts from the laws on the basis of which the
sentenced person will serve the sentence;(4)a document confirming the
nationality of the sentenced person.

### 6\. If necessary, the Central Authorities of the Contracting States may
request any additional documents or information.

Article 7ExpensesExpenses incurred in the transfer of the sentenced person,
including the expenses on transit, shall be borne by the Receiving State,
except expenses incurred in the territory of the Transferring State.Article
8Procedure of Transfer

### 1\. The Central Authority of either Contracting State after receipt of all
necessary documents shall promptly inform the Central Authority of the other
Contracting State of its consent/rejection to transfer or receive the
sentenced person, subject to the terms and conditions of this Treaty.

### 2\. Place, time and procedure of transfer of the sentenced person shall
promptly be determined by the Central Authorities of the Contracting States.

Article 9Enforcement of Sentence

### 1\. The Receiving State shall ensure the continuing of enforcement of
sentence in accordance with its laws and is bound by the legal nature and
duration of the sentence as determined by the Transferring State.

### 2\. The court or any other competent authority of the Receiving State, on
the basis of the judgement of the Transferring State, shall, subject to and in
accordance with the laws of its State, impose the same term of imprisonment as
far as possible as that imposed in the judgement and shall not aggravate the
sentence.

If, according to the laws of the Receiving State, the maximum term of
imprisonment for the crime committed is less than that imposed by the
judgement, the court or any other competent authority of the Receiving State
shall impose the maximum term of imprisonment provided for by the laws of the
Receiving State for committing the same crime.

### 3\. The part of the sentence served in the territory of the Transferring
State shall be deducted from the total term of the sentence.

### 4\. Decision on enforcing any other punishment along with deprivation of
liberty imposed by the judgement shall be taken by the court or any other
competent authority of the Receiving State, if such punishment for the crime
committed is provided for by the laws of such State.

Article 10Pardon, Amnesty, Commutation of Sentence and Review of Judgement

### 1\. Either of the Contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty or
commutation of sentence in accordance with its Constitution or other laws.

### 2\. Only the Transferring State shall have the jurisdiction to decide an
appeal or review of the judgement.

Article 11Non bis in idemAfter transfer, the sentenced person shall not be
prosecuted or proceeded against in Receiving State for the Same Criminal acts
as the ones pon account of which the sentence was imposed in the Transferring
State.Article 12Modification and Termination of Enforcement of Sentence

### 1\. The Transferring State shall promptly notify the Receiving State of
any decision which entail modification or termination of the enforcement of
sentence.

### 2\. The Receiving State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence or
part thereof as soon as it is informed by the Transferring State of any
relevant decision.

Article 13Revision and Remission of Judgement

### 1\. If, after the transfer of the sentenced person for serving the
sentence, the judgement is revised by the court of the Transferring State, a
copy of the judgement and other necessary documents shall be promptly
submitted to the Central Authority of the Receiving State. The Receiving State
shall resolve the issue of enforcing such decision as specified in Article 9
of this Treaty.

### 2\. If, after the transfer of the sentenced person for serving the
sentence, the sentence is remitted in the Transferring state, a copy of the
decision shall be promptly submitted to the Central Authority of the Receiving
State.

Article 14Exchange of Information

### 1\. The Central Authority of the Receiving State shall inform the Central
Authority of the Transferring State of the decision taken by a court or
competent authority in order to enforce the sentence, of granting pardon,
amnesty or parole and in case of escape or death of the sentenced person.

### 2\. The Central Authority of the Receiving State on request of the Central
Authority of the Transferring State shall provide information on the process
of serving the sentence after the sentenced person's transfer.

### 3\. The Receiving State shall also inform the Transferring State when the
enforcement of the sentence has been completed.

Article 15Transit

### 1\. A Contracting State shall in accordance with its law satisfy a request
for transit of a sentenced person through its territory if such request is
made by the other Contracting State, which has agreed with a third State to
the transfer of that person.

### 2\. A Contracting State may refuse to permit transit if:

(1)the sentenced person is its national;(2)the crime for which the sentence
was imposed is not considered as such under its law.(3)The request for transit
shall include the information specified in Paragraph 3 of Article 6 and shall
be accompanied by the documents specified in Paragraph 1 and subparagraphs "1"
and "3" of Paragraph 4 of Article 6 of this Treaty.

### 4\. The Contracting State requested to permit transit may hold the
sentenced person in custody only for such time as transit through its
territory requires.

### 5\. A request for transit is not required if such transit is carried out
by air and no landing in the territory of the other Contracting State is
expected. However, that Contracting State has to be notified of any such
transit over its territory.

Article 16LanguagesThe request and supporting documents, notifications and
information shall be in the language of the requesting Contracting State and
shall be accompanied with translation into the language of the requested
Contracting State or into the English language and shall not be subject to
legalization.Article 17Temporal ApplicationThis Treaty shall be applicable to
enforcement of sentences imposed both before and after its entry into
force.Article 18Settlement of DisputesAny disputes, arising between the
Contracting States regarding interpretation and implementation of this Treaty,
shall be settled through consultations and negotiations by the Central
Authorities of the Contracting States.Article 19Amendments to the TreatyThis
Treaty may be amended by mutual consensus of the Contracting States.Article
20Final Provisions

### 1\. This Treaty shall remain in force for an indefinite period of time.
The Treaty becomes binding upon expiry of 30 days from the date of receipt of
the last written notice from the Contracting States through diplomatic
channels on completion of all internal procedures as required for its
commencement.

### 2\. This Treaty terminates upon expiry of 180 days from the date upon
which either Contracting State gives written notice to the other Contracting
State of its intention to terminate it through diplomatic channels.

### 3\. The termination of this Treaty shall not impede finalization of
requests for transfer, received prior to the date of termination.

### 4\. Notwithstanding any termination, the provisions of this treaty shall
continue to apply to persons who have already been transferred in accordance
with this Treaty.

Done in Moscow this 21st day of October 2013 in duplicate, each in English,
Hindi and Russian languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of
discrepancies in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.For the
Republic of IndiaFor the Russian Federation

