## International Treaty - Act

## Treaty on Extradition between the Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the Republic of South Africa

TREATY  
India

# Treaty on Extradition between the Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the Republic of South Africa

## Rule TREATY-ON-EXTRADITION-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-
AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-SOUTH-AFRICA of 2007

  * Published on 8 June 2007 
  * Commenced on 8 June 2007 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 June 2007.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Treaty on Extradition between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of South AfricaPublished vide Notification No.
G.S.R. 441(E), 8th June, 2007Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R. 441(E). -
Whether the Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and Republic of
South Africa was signed at New Delhi, on 16th October, 2003, and the
instruments of ratification were exchanged at Pretoria on 23rd November, 2005
in accordance with article 23 of the Treaty and which treaty provides as
follows :The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the
Republic of South Africa, hereby referred to as "the Contracting
States,"Desiring to make more effective their co-operation in the prevention
and suppression of crime by concluding a Treaty on Extradition;Affirming their
respect for each other's legal systems and judicial institutions;Have agreed
as follows:Article 1Obligation to ExtraditeEach Contracting State agrees to
extradite to the other, in accordance with the provisions of this treaty,
persons who are wanted for trial/prosecution or the imposition or enforcement
of a sentence in the Requesting State for an extradition offence.Article
2Extraditable Offences

### 1. For the purpose of this Treaty, extradition shall be granted for
conduct, which constitutes an offence under the laws of both Contracting
State, punishable by deprivation of liberty for at least one year or by a more
severe penalty.

### 2. Where the request for extradition relate to a person sentenced to
deprivation of liberty by a court of the Requesting State for an extraditable
offence, extradition shall be granted if a period of at least six months of
the sentence remains to be serviced.

### 3. For the purpose of this Article, in determining whether conduct is an
offence against the law of Requested State-

(a)it shall not matter whether the laws of the Contacting States place the
conduct constituting the offence within the same category of offence or
describe the offence by the same terminology;(b)the totality of the conduct
alleged against the person whose extradition is sought shall be taken into
account and it shall not matter whether, under the laws of the Contacting
States, the constituent elements of the offence differ.

### 4. An offence of a fiscal character, including an offence against a law
relating to taxation, customs duties, foreign exchange control or any other
revenue matter, is an extraditable offence. Provided that the conduct for
which extradition is sought is an offence in the Requested State, extradition,
may not be refused on the ground that the law of the Requested State does not
impose the same kind of tax or duty or does not contain a tax, duty, customs,
or exchange regulation of the same kind as the law of the Requesting State.

### 5. An offence is extraditable whether or not the conduct on which the
Requesting State bases its request occurred in the territory over which it has
jurisdiction. However, where the law of the Requested State does not provide
for jurisdiction over an offence in similar circumstances, the Requested State
may, in its discretion, refuse extradition on this basis.

### 6. Extradition may be granted pursuant to the provisions of this Treaty in
respect of an offence provided that-

(a)it was an offence in the Requesting State at the time of the commission of
the offence; and(b)the offence alleged, if it had taken place in the Requested
State at the time of the making of the request for extradition, would have
constituted an offence against the law of the Requested State.

### 7. If the request for extradition relates to a sentence of both
imprisonment and a pecuniary sanction, the Requested State may grant
extradition for the enforcement of both the imprisonment and the pecuniary
sanction.

### 8. If the request for extradition related to more than one offence, each
of which is punishable under the laws of both States, but some of which do not
meet the other requirements of paragraphs 1 and 2, the Requested State may
grant extradition for such offences provided that the person is to be
extradited for at least one extraditable offence.

Article 3Mandatory Refusal of ExtraditionExtradition shall be refused in any
of the following circumstances:

### 1\. Where the offence for which extradition is requested is considered by
the Requested State to be a political offence. For the purpose of this
paragraph, the following conduct does not constitute a political offence:

(a)Conduct that constitutes an offence mentioned in a multilateral convention
or agreement to which both Contracting States are parties and are obligation
to extradite the person or submit the matter to appropriate authorities for
prosecution;(b)murder;(c)a murder of or other violent crime against a Head of
State or a Head of Government or Deputy Head of State or Deputy Head of
Government of the Requesting or Requested State, or a member of such person's
a family;(d)inflicting serious bodily harm;(e)Sexual assault;(f)kidnapping,
abduction, hostage-taking or extortion;(g)using explosives, incendiaries,
devices or substances in circumstances in which human life is likely to be
endangered or serious bodily harm or substantial property damage is likely to
be caused; and(h)an attempt or conspiracy to engage in, counselling, aiding or
abetting another person to engage in, or being an accessory after the fact in
relation to, the conduct referred to in any of paragraphs (a) to (g).

### 2\. Where there are substantial grounds for believing that the request for
extradition is made for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing the person by
reason of that person's race religion, nationality, ethnic origin, or sex.

### 3\. Where the prosecution for the offence for which extradition is
requested would be barred by lapse of time under the law of the Requesting
State.

### 4\. Where the offence for which extradition is requested constitutes an
offence under military law, which is not an offence under ordinary criminal
law.

### 5\. Where the person sought has been finally acquitted or convicted in the
Requested State for the same offence for which extradition is requested and,
if convicted, the sentence imposed has been fully enforce or is no longer
enforceable.

Article 4Discretionary Refusal of ExtraditionExtradition may be refused in any
of the following circumstances :

### 1\. Where the offence for which extradition is requested is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Requested State and that State will prosecute that
offence.

### 2\. Where the person sought is being prosecuted by the Requested State for
the offence for which extradition is requested.

### 3\. Whether the offence carried the death penalty under the law of the
Requesting State, unless that State undertakes that the dealt penalty will not
be sough, or if a sentence of death is imposed, it will not be carried out.

### 4\. Where, in exceptional cases, the Requested State while also taking
into account the seriousness of the offence and the interests of the
Requesting State considers that because of the personal circumstances, such as
age, mental or physical ability to stand trial, of the person sought, the
extradition would be incompatible with humanitarian consideration.

### 5\. Where the person sought has been finally acquitted or convicted in a
third State for the same offence for which extradition is requested and, if
convicted, the sentence imposed has been fully enforced or is no longer
enforceable.

Article 5NationalityExtradition shall not be refused on the ground of the
nationality of the person sought.Article 6Presentation of Requests

### 1\. A request for ex traditional shall be submitted-

(a)in the case of the Republic of India, to the Minister of External
Affair;(b)in the case of the Republic of South Africa, to the Minister for
Justice and Constitutional Development.

### 2\. The request for extradition shall be routed through the diplomatic
channels.

Article 7Documents to be SubmittedThe following documents shall be submitted
in support of a request for extradition:(a)in all cases, whether the person is
sought for prosecution or the imposition or enforcement of
sentence-(i)information about the description, identity, location and
nationality of the person sought;(ii)a Statement describing briefly the
conduct constituting the offence for which the extradition is requested,
indicating the place and the date of the commission of the offence and which
provides a description or a copy of the test of the legal provisions
describing the offence and the applicable penalty. This statement shall also
indicate-(aa)that these legal provisions were in force both at the time of the
commission of the offence and at the time of the extradition
request;(bb)whether or not the prosecution of the offence, the imposition or
the enforcement of any applicable penalty is barred by reason of lapse of
time;(cc)where the offence occurred outside the territory of the Requesting
State, the legal provisions establishing its jurisdiction; and(b)in the case
of a person sought for prosecution for an offence(i)the original or a
certified true copy of the warrant of arrest or of any document having the
same force and effect, issued by a competent authority in the Requesting
State;(ii)a copy of the indictment, charge sheet or other charging document;
and(iii)evidence that would be sufficient to justify the committal for trial
of the person sought, if the conduct had occurred in the Requested State. The
record may include any report, statement or other relevant documentation.(c)in
the case of a person sought for the imposition or enforcement of a
sentence-(i)a certified statement by the competent authority describing the
conduct for which the person was convicted and attaching a copy of the
document that records the conviction and, where applicable, sentence of the
person; and(ii)If a portion of the sentence has already been served, a
statement by the competent authority specifying the duration of the sentence
which remains to be served.Article 8Authentication of Supporting
DocumentsWhere the law of the Requested State requires authentication,
documents shall be authenticated by a statement by the Minister making the
request or a person designated by here or him under the seal of that Minister
identifying the person who has signed the document, including that person's
position or title.Article 9LanguageAll documents submitted in accordance with
this Treaty shall be in the English language.Article 10Additional
InformationIf the Requested State considers that the information furnished in
support of a request for extradition is not sufficient in accordance with this
Treaty to enable extradition to be granted, that State may request that
additional information be furnished within such time as it specifies.Article
11WaiverExtradition of a person may be granted on request pursuant to the
provisions of this Treaty, notwithstanding that the requirements of Article 7
have not been complied with, provided that the person sought consents to being
extradited.Article 12Provisional Arrest

### 1\. In case of urgency, the competent authorities of the Requesting State
may apply by any means [including through the International Police
Organisation (INTERPOL)] which allows for a written record for the provisional
arrest of the person sought.

### 2\. An application for provisional arrest shall include the following:

(a)information about the description, identity, location and nationality of
the person sought;(b)a statement that a request for extradition will
follow;(c)a description of the nature of the offence and applicable penalty,
with a brief summary of the facts of the case, including date and place of the
offence;(d)a statement attesting to the existence of a warrant of arrest or a
conviction to which this Treaty applies and details thereof; and(e)any other
information which would justify provisional arrest in the Requested State.

### 3\. The Requested State shall promptly inform the Requesting State of the
Measures taken pursuant to the application for provisional arrest.

### 4\. Provisional arrest shall be terminated if the Requested State has not
received the request within sixty (60) days of the arrest. The competent
authorities of the Requested State, insofar as is permitted by the law of that
State, may extend that delay with regard to the submission of the documents
referred to in Article 7. However, the person sought may be granted bail at
any time, subject to the conditions deemed necessary to ensure that the person
does not leave the country.

### 5\. The expiry of the sixty (60) day period does not preclude subsequent
arrest and extradition if a request for extradition is subsequently received.

Article 13Competing Requests

### 1\. Where requests are received from two or more States for the
extradition of the same person either for the same offence or for different
offences, the Requested State shall determine to which of those states the
person is to be extradited and shall notify those states of is decision.

### 2\. In determining to which State a person is to be extradited, the
Requested State shall have reward to all the relevant circumstances, and, in
particular, to-

(a)the relative seriousness of those offences, if the requests relate to
different offences;(b)the time and place of commission of each offence;(c)the
respective dates of the requests;(d)the nationality of the person
sought;(e)the ordinary place of residence of the person;(f)whether the
requests were made pursuant to an extradition treaty;(g)the interests of the
respective States; and(h)the nationality of the victim.Article 14Surrender

### 1\. The Requested State shall, as soon as a decision on the request for
extradition has been made, communicate that decision to the Requesting State.
Reasons shall be given for any complete or partial refusal of an extradition
request.

### 2\. Where extradition is granted, the Requested State shall surrender the
person in accordance with arrangements agreed to between the competent
authorities of the contracting States.

### 3\. The Requesting State shall receive the person within such reasonable
period as the Requested State specifies and, if the person is not removed
within that period, the Requested State may refuse to extradite that person
for the same offence.

### 4\. If circumstances belong its control present a contracting State from
surrendering or removing the person to be extradited it shall notify the other
contracting State. The contracting States shall decide upon a new date of
surrender and the provisions of paragraph 3 of this article shall apply.

Article 15Postponed or Temporary Surrender

### 1\. Where the person sought is being proceeded against or is serving a
sentence in the Requested State for an offence other than that for which
extradition is requested, the Requested State may surrender the person sought
of postpone surrender until the conclusion of the proceedings or the service
of the whole or any part of the sentence imposed. The Requested State shall
inform the Requesting State of any postponement.

### 2\. To the extent permitted by its law, where a person referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Article has been found extraditable, the Requested State
may temporarily surrender the person sought for the purposes of prosecution to
the Requesting. State in accordance with conditions to be determined between
the Contracting States. The person so surrendered shall be kept in custody in
the Requesting State and shall be returned to the Requested State after the
conclusion of the proceedings against that person. A person who is returned to
the Requested State following a temporary surrender shall be finally
surrendered to the Requesting State to serve any sentence imposed, in
accordance with the provisions of this Treaty.

Article 16Surrender of Property

### 1\. The Requested States shall, in so far as its law permits and at the
request of the Requesting State, seize and surrender property that may be used
in the prosecution of the offence and which, at the time of the arrest, is
found in the possession of the person sought or is discovered subsequently.

### 2\. The property mentioned in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be
surrendered even if extradition having been granted, cannot be carried out
owing to the death or escape of the person sought.

### 3\. Where the property referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article
is required in the Requested State in connection with civil or criminal
proceedings, the Requested State may temporarily retain or surrender it on
condition that it he returned.

### 4\. Any rights that the Requested State or third parties may have acquired
in the property shall be preserved. Where these rights exist, the property
shall be returned without charge to the Requested State as soon as possible
after the trial.

Article 17Rule of Speciality

### 1\. A person who has been extradited shall not be prosecuted, sentenced or
detained for any offence committed prior to the surrender other than that for
which that person was extradited, nor shall the person's liberty be restricted
for any other reason, except in the following cases:

(a)where the Requested State consents;(b)where the person, having had an
opportunity to leave the Requesting state, has not done so within thirty (30)
days of final discharge, or has voluntarily returned to that State after
having left it; or(c)where the person extradited consents before a judicial
authority in the Requesting State.

### 2\. A request for the consent of the Requested State under paragraph 1 of
this Article shall, if required by the Requested State, be accompanied by the
relevant documents required by Article 7 and a record of any statement made by
the extradited person in respect of the offence concerned.

### 3\. If the charge for which the person was extradited is subsequently
changed, that person may be prosecuted or sentenced provided the offence under
its revised description is :

(a)based on substantially the same facts contained in the extradition request
and is supporting documents;(b)punishable by the same maximum penalty as, or a
lesser penalty than, the offence for which the person was extradited;
and(c)substantially the same in nature to the original offence.Article 18Re-
Extradition to a Third State

### 1\. Where a person has been surrendered to the Requesting State, that
State shall not extradite the person to any third State for an offence
committed before that person's surrender unless-

(a)the Requested State consents to that extradition; or(b)the person has had
an opportunity to leave the Requesting State and has not done so within thirty
(30) days of final discharge in respect of the offence for which that person
was surrendered by the Requested State or if the person has voluntarily
returned to the Requesting State after having left it.

### 2\. The Requested State may request the production of the documents
submitted by the third State in relation to any consent pursuant to sub-
paragraph 1(a) of this Article.

Article 19Transit

### 1\. To the extent permitted by its law, transit of a person sought in
extradition proceedings by one Contracting State, through the territory of the
other Contracting State shall be granted on a request in writing. The request
for transit-

(a)may be transmitted by any means; and(b)shall contain the information
referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 12, and the particular of the transit
and ultimate proposed surrender.

### 2\. No authorization for transit shall be necessary when air travel is
used and no landing is scheduled in the territory of the transit State. In the
case of an unscheduled landing, the transit State may require the request for
transit provided for in paragraph 1. To the extent permitted by its law, the
transit State shall detain the person in transit until the request is received
and the transit is carried out, provided that the request is received within
forty eight (48) hours after the unscheduled landing.

Article 20Expenses

### 1\. The Requested State shall make all necessary arrangements for and meet
the cost of any proceedings arising out of a request for extradition.

### 2\. The Requested State shall bear the expenses incurred in its territory
in the arrest of the person whose extradition is sought, and in the
maintenance in custody of the person until surrender to the Requesting State.

### 3\. The Requesting State shall bear the expense incurred in conveying the
person extradited from the territory of the Requested State.

Article 21International Obligations under Conventions and TreatiesThe present
Treaty shall not affect the rights and obligations of the Contracting States
arising from international conventions or treaties to which they are
parties.Article 22ConsultationThe Ministry of External Affairs of the Republic
of India and the Department for Justice and Constitutional Development of the
Republic of South Africa or persons designated by the respective Ministers may
consult with each other through the diplomatic channel in connection with the
processing of individual cases and in furtherance of efficient implementation
of this Treaty.Article 23Entry into Force, Amendment and Termination

### 1\. This Treaty shall be subject to ratification and the instruments of
ratification shall be exchanged as soon as possible.

### 2\. This Treaty shall enter into force on the date of the exchange of
instruments of ratification.

### 3\. This treaty may be amended by mutual consent.

### 4\. Either Contracting, State may terminate this Treaty. The termination
shall take effect six (6) months from the date on which it was notified to the
other Contracting State.

### 5\. The Contracting State may also terminate this Treaty by mutual consent
on such terms and conditions as may be agreed to between the States.

In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Treaty:Done at New Delhi this the
16th day of October of the year Two Thousand and Three, in two originals each,
in Hindi and English, both text being equally authentic. However, in case of
divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore,
in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section 1 of Section 3 of tho
Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that
the provisions of the said Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to the
Republic of South Africa from the date of publication of this order.

