## International Treaty - Act

## Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Republic of
Mauritius

TREATY  
India

# Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Republic of
Mauritius

## Rule TREATY-ON-EXTRADITION-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-REPUBLIC-
OF-MAURITIUS of 2008

  * Published on 19 September 2008 
  * Commenced on 19 September 2008 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 September 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Republic of
MauritiusPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R. 661(E), 19th September
2008G.S.R. 661(E). - Whereas the Extradition Treaty between the Republic of
India and the Republic of Mauritius was signed at New Delhi on 21st November,
2003; and the exchange of the Instrument of Ratification of the Treaty took
place at Port Louis on 23rd June, 2008 and has entered into force from the
date of the exchange of instruments of ratification in terms of Article 20 and
which Treaty provides as follows :The Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the Republic of Mauritius;Desirous of making more effective
the corporation of the two countries in the suppression of crime by making
further provision for the reciprocal extradition offenders;Recognising that
concrete steps are necessary to combat terrorism;Have agreed as follows
;Article 1Duty to Extradition(1) Each Contracting State undertakes to
extradition to the other, in the circumstances and subject to the conditions
specified in this Treaty, any person who, being accused or convicted of an
extradition offence as described in Article 2, committed with in the territory
of the one State, is found within the territory of the other State, whether
such offence was committed before or after the entry into force of this
Treaty.(2) Extradition shall also be available in respect of an extradition
offence as described in Article 2 committed outside the territory of the
Requesting State but in respect of which it has jurisdiction it the Requested
State would, in corresponding circumstances, have jurisdiction over such as
offence. In such circumstances the Requested State shall have regard to all
the circumstances of the case including the seriousness of the offence.(3) In
addition extradition shall be available for an extradition offence as
described in Article 2 :(a) if it is committed in a third State by a national
of the Requesting State and the Requesting State bases its jurisdiction on the
nationality of the offender; and(b) if it occurred in the Requesting State, it
would be an offence under the law of the State punishable with imprisonment
for a term of at least one year.Article 2Extradition Offences(1) An
extradition offence for the purposes of this Treaty is constituted by conduct
which under the laws of each Contracting State is punishable by a term of
imprisonment for a period of at least one year.(2) An offence may be an
extradition offence notwithstanding that it relates to taxation or revenue or
is one of a purely fiscal character.Article 3Composite OffencesExtradition
shall be available in accordance with this Treaty for an extradition offence,
notwithstanding that the conduct of the person sought occurred wholly or in
part in the Requested State, if under the law of that State this conduct and
its effects, or its intended effects, taken as a whole, would be regarded as
constituting the commission of an extradition offence in the territory of the
Requesting State.Article 4Extradition of NationalsNothing in this Treaty shall
preclude the extradition by the Requested State of its nationals either in
respect of a territorial offence or in respect of an extraterritorial
offence.Article 5The Political Offence Exception(1) Extradition may be refused
if the offence of which it is requested is an offence of a political
character;(2) For the purpose of this Treaty the following offences shall not
be regarded as offence of a political character :(a) an offence within the
scope of the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft,
opened for signature at the Hague on 16 December, 1970;(b) an offence within
the scope of the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the
Safety of Civil Aviation, opened for signature at Montreal on 23 September,
1971;(c) an offence within the scope of the Convention on the Prevention and
Punishment of Crimes against internationally Protected Persons, including
Diplomatic Agents, opened for signature at New York on 14 December, 1973;(d)
an offence within the scope of the International Convention against the Taking
of Hostages, opened for signature at New York on 18 December, 1979;(e)
murder;(f) manslaughter or culpable homicide;(g) assault occasioning actual
bodily harm, or causing injury, maliciously wounding or inflicting grievous
bodily harm whether by means of a weapon, a dangerous substance or
otherwise;(h) the causing of an explosion likely to endanger life or cause
serious damage to property;(i) the making or possession of an explosive
substance by a person who intends either himself or through another person to
endanger life or cause serious damage to property;(j) the possession of a
firearm or ammunition by a person who intends either himself or through
another persons to endanger life;(k) the use of a firearm by a person with
intent to resist or prevent the arrest or detention of himself or another
person;(l) damaging property whether used for public utilities or otherwise
intent to endanger life or with reckless disregard as to whether the life of
another would thereby be endangered;(m) kidnapping, abduction, false
imprisonment or unlawful detention, including the taking of a hostage;(n)
incitement to murder;(o) any other offence related to terrorism which at the
time of the request is, under the law of the Requested State, not to be
regarded as an offence of a political character;(p) an attempt or conspiracy
to commit any of the foregoing offences or participation as an accomplice of a
person wo commits or attempts to commit such an offence;Article 6Extradition
and Prosecution(1) The request for extradition may be refused by the Requested
State if the person whose extradition is sought may be tried for the
extradition offence in the courts of that State.(2) Where the Requested State
refuses a request for extradition for the reason set out in paragraph 1 of
this Article, it shall submit the case to its competent authorities so that
prosecution may be considered. Those authorities shall take their decision in
the same manner as in the case of any offence of a serious nature under the
law of that State.(3) If the competent authorities decide not to prosecute in
such a case, the request for extradition shall be reconsidered in accordance
with this Treaty.Article 7Grounds for Refusal of Extradition(1) A person may
not be extradited if :(a) he satisfies the Requested State that it would,
having regard to all the circumstances, be unjust or oppressive to extradite
him by reason by :(i) the trivial nature of the offence of which he is accused
or was convicted; or(ii) the passage of time since he is alleged to have
committed it or to have become unlawfully at large, as the case may be;
or(iii) the accusation against him not having been made in good faith in the
interests of justice; or(b) the offence of which he is accused or convicted is
a military offence which is not also an offence under the general criminal
law.(2) A person who has been convicted of an extradition offence may not be
extradited therefor unless he was sentenced to imprisonment or other form of
detention for a period of four months or more.(3) A person may not be
extradited if he would, if proceeded against in the territory of the Requested
State for the offence for which his extradition is requested, be entitled to
be discharged under any rule of law of the Requested State relating to
previous acquittal or conviction.Article 8Postponement of Surrender(1) If
criminal proceedings against the person sought are instituted in the territory
of the Requested State, or he is lawfully detained in consequence of criminal
proceedings, the decision whether or not to extradite him may be postponed
until the criminal proceedings have been completed or he is no longer
detained.(2) A person sought may not be extradited until :(a) it has been
decided in accordance with the law of the Requested State that he is liable to
be extradited; and(b) the expiration of any further period which may be
required by the law of that State.Article 9Extradition Procedures(1) The
request for extradition under this Treaty shall be made through the diplomatic
channel.(2) The request shall be accompanied by :(a) as accurate a description
as possible of the person sought, together with any other information which
would help to establish his identity, nationality and residence.(b) a
statement of the facts of the offence for which extradition is requested,
and(c) the text, if any, of the law:(i) defining that offence; and(ii)
prescribing the maximum punishment for that offence.(3) If the request relates
to an accused person, it must also be accompanied by a warrant of arrest
issued by a judge, magistrate or other competent authority in the territory of
the Requesting State and by such evidence as, according to the law of the
Requested State, would justify his committal for trial if the offence had been
committed in the territory of the Requested State, including evidence that the
person requested is the person to whom the warrant of arrest refers.(4) If the
request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, it shall also be
accompanied :(a) by a certificate of the conviction and sentence;(b) by a
statement that the person is not entitled to question the conviction or
sentence and showing how much of the sentence has not been carried out.(5) If
the Requested State considers that the evidence produced or information
supplied for the purpose of this Treaty is not sufficient in order to enable a
decision to be taken as to the request, additional evidence or information
shall be submitted within such time as the Requested State shall
require.Article 10Provisional Arrest(1) In urgent cases the person sought may,
in accordance with the law of the Requested State, be provisionally arrested
on the application of the competent authorities of the Requesting State. The
application shall contain an indication of intention to request the
extradition of that person and statement of the existence of a warrant of
arrest or a conviction against him, and, if available, his description and
such further information, if any, as would be necessary to justify the issue
of a warrant of arrest had the offence been committed, or the person sought
been convicted, in the territory of the Requested State.(2) A person arrested
upon such an application shall be set at liberty upon the expiration of 60
days from the date of his arrest if request for his extradition shall not have
been received. This provision shall not prevent the institution of further
proceedings for the extradition of the person sought if a request is
subsequently received.Article 11Rule of Speciality(1) Any person who is
returned to the territory of the Requesting State under this Treaty shall not,
during the period described in paragraph (2) of this Article, be dealt with in
the territory of the Requesting State for or in respect of any offence
committed before he was returned to that territory other than :(a) the offence
in respect of which he was returned;(b) any lesser offence disclosed by the
facts proved for the purposes of securing his return other than an offence in
relation to which an order for his return could not lawfully be made; or(c)
any other offence in respect of which the Requested Party may consent to his
being dealt with other than an offence in relation to which an order for his
return could not lawfully be made or would not in fact be made.(2) The period
referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article is the period beginning with the
day of his arrival in the territory of the Requesting State or his return
under this Treaty and ending forty-five days after the first subsequent day on
which he has the opportunity to leave the territory of the Requesting
State.(3) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply to
offences committed after the return of a person under this Treaty or matters
arising in relation to such offences.(4) A person shall not be re-extradited
to a third State, except when, having had an opportunity to leave the
territory of the State to which he has been surrendered, he has not done so
within sixty days of his final discharge, or has returned to that territory
after having left it.Article 12Evidence(1) The authorities of the Requested
State shall admit as evidence, in any proceedings for extradition, any
evidence taken on oath or by way of affirmation, any warrant and any
certificate of, or judicial document stating the fact of, a conviction, if it
is authenticated :(a)(i) in the case of a warrant being signed, or in the case
of any original document by being certified, by a judge, magistrate or other
competent authority of the Requesting State; and(ii) either by oath of some
witness or by being sealed with the official seal of the appropriate Minister
of the Requesting State; or(b) In such other manner as may be permitted by the
law of the Requested State.(2) The evidence described in paragraph (1) shall
be admissible in extradition proceedings in the Requested State whether sworn
or affirmed in the Requesting State or in some third State.Article 13Competing
RequestsIf extradition of the same person whether for the same offence or for
different offences is requested by a Contracting State and a third State with
which the Requested State has an extradition arrangement, the Requested State
shall determine to which State the person shall be extradited, and shall not
be obliged to give preference to the Contracting State.Article 14Capital
Punishment(1) If under the law of the Requesting State the person sought is
liable to the death penalty for the offence for which his extradition is
requested, but the law of the Requested State does not provide for the death
penalty in a similar case, extradition may be refused unless the Requesting
State gives such assurance as the Requested State considers sufficient that
the death penalty will not be carried out.Article 15Surrender(1) If
extradition is granted, the person sought shall be sent by the authorities of
the Requested State to such convenient point of departure from the territory
of that State as the Requesting State shall indicate.(2) The Requesting State
shall remove the person sought from the territory of the Requested State
within one month or such longer period as may be permitted under the law of
the Requested State. If he is not removed within that period, the Requested
State may refuse to extradite him for the same offence.Article 16Surrender of
Property(1) When a request for extradition is granted, the Requested State
shall, upon request and so far as its laws allow, hand over to the Requesting
State articles (including sums of money) which may serve as proof or evidence
of the offence.(2) If the articles in question are liable to seizure or
confiscation in the territory of the Requested State, the latter may, in
connection with pending proceedings, temporarily retain them or hand them over
on condition that they are returned.(3) These provisions shall not prejudice
the rights of the Requested State or any person other than the person sought.
When these rights exist the articles shall on request be returned to the
Requested to the State without charge as soon as possible after the end of the
proceedings.Article 17Mutual Legal Assistance in ExtraditionEach Contracting
State shall, to the extent permitted by its law afford the other the widest
measure of mutual assistance in criminal matters in connection with the
offence for which extradition has been requested.Article 18Documents and
Expenses(1) If in any particular case the Requested State so requires, the
Requesting State shall supply a translation of any document submitted in
accordance with the provisions of this treaty.(2) Expenses incurred in the
territory of the Requested State by reason of the request for extradition
shall be borne by that State.(3) The Requested State shall make all the
arrangements which shall be requisite with respect to the representation of
the Requesting State in any proceedings arising out of the request.Article
19Obligation under International Convention/TreatiesThe present Treaty shall
not affect the rights and obligations of the Contracting State arising from
International Conventions/Treaties to which they are parties.Article 20Final
provisions(1) The present Treaty shall apply to requests made after its entry
into force, even if the relevant acts or omissions occurred prior to that
date.(2) This Treaty shall be subject to ratification and the instruments of
ratification shall be exchanged as soon as possible. It shall enter into force
on the date of the exchange of instruments or ratification.(3) Either of the
Contracting States may terminate this Treaty at any time by giving notice to
the other through the diplomatic channel; and if such notice is given the
Treaty shall cease to have effect six months after the receipt of the
notice.In witness where of the Undersigned being duly authorized thereto by
their respective Governments have signed this Treaty.Done in duplicate at New
Delhi on this 21st day of November, 2003, in Hindi and English, both languages
being equally authentic. In case of any divergence of interpretation, the
English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (1) of the Section 3 of the Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962),
the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act,
other than Chapter III, shall apply to the Republic of Mauritius from the
dated of the publication of this notification.

