## International Treaty - Act

## Treaty Between The Republic of India and The Kingdom of Thailand on the
Transfer of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Treaty Between The Republic of India and The Kingdom of Thailand on the
Transfer of Sentenced Persons

## Rule TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-KINGDOM-OF-THAILAND-ON-
THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS of 2013

  * Published on 13 May 2013 
  * Commenced on 13 May 2013 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 May 2013.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Treaty Between The Republic of India and The Kingdom of Thailand on the
Transfer of Sentenced PersonsPublished vide Notification New Delhi, the 13th
May, 2013(CS Division)G.S.R. 321(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act,
2003 (49 of 2003), the Central Government having ratified the Agreement on 3rd
May, 2013, hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to
the Kingdom of Thailand and notifies the full text of the Treaty Between the
Government of the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Thailand on the
Transfer of Sentenced Persons signed on 25th January 2012 for the propose of
transfer of prisoners between that country and India as follows, namely:Treaty
Between The Republic of India and The Kingdom of Thailand on the Transfer of
Sentenced PersonsThe Republic of India and the Kingdom of Thailand,
hereinafter referred to as "the Contracting States";Desiring to co-operate in
the enforcement of sentence and to facilitate the social rehabilitation of
sentenced persons into their own countries; andConsidering that this co-
operation should serve the interests of the administration of justice and that
this objective should be fulfilled by giving foreign nationals, who have been
convicted and sentenced as a result of their commission of a criminal offence,
the opportunity to serve their sentence in their own society;Have agreed as
follows:Article 1DefinitionsFor the purpose of this Treaty:(a) "judgment"
means a decision or order of a criminal court or tribunal established under
law imposing a sentence;(b) "receiving State" means the State to which the
sentenced person may be, or has been, transferred in order to serve the
remaining sentence thereof;(c) "transferring State" means the State in which
the sentence was imposed on the sentenced person who may be, or has been
transferred;(d) "sentence" means any punishment or measure involving
deprivation of liberty ordered by a criminal court or tribunal established
under law of the transferring State for a determinate period of time or for
life imprisonment in the exercise of its criminal jurisdiction;(e) "sentenced
person" means a person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment under a judgment
passed by a criminal court including the courts or tribunals established under
law in the Contracting States;Article 2General PrinciplesA person sentenced in
the territory of one Contracting State may be transferred to the territory of
the other Contracting State in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty
in order to serve the sentence imposed on the sentenced person. To that end,
the sentenced person or any other person who is entitled to act on the
sentenced person's behalf may express the sentenced person's willingness to be
transferred under this Treaty.Article 3Central Authorities

### 1. Central Authorities in charge of the implementation of this Treaty for
the Contracting States are:

\- For the Republic of India: Ministry of Home Affairs.\- For the Kingdom of
Thailand: The Committee for Consideration of the Transfer of Prisoners.

### 2. In case either Contracting State changes its Central Authority, it
shall notify the other Contracting State of the same through diplomatic
channels.

Article 4Conditions for Transfer

### 1\. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Treaty on the
following conditions:

(a)the sentenced person is a national of the receiving State and is not a
national of the transferring State;(b)the judgment is final;(c)the death
penalty has not been imposed on the sentenced person, except that the death
penalty has been commuted to a term of imprisonment or to life
imprisonment;(d)no criminal proceedings are pending against the sentenced
person in the transferring State;(e)the sentenced person has served in the
transferring State any minimum period of imprisonment, confinement, or any
other form of deprivation of liberty stipulated by the law of the transferring
State;(f)at the time of receipt of the request for transfer, the sentenced
person still has at least one year of the sentence to serve. In exceptional
cases, the transferring State, at its discretion and to the extent permitted
by its law, may agree to a transfer even if the time to be served by the
sentenced person is less than one year;(g)the acts or omissions for which that
person was sentenced in the transferring State are those which are punishable
as a crime in the receiving State, or would constitute a criminal offence if
committed on its territory;(h)consent to the transfer is given by the
sentenced person or, where in view of his age or physical or mental condition
either Contracting State considers it necessary, by any other person entitled
to act on his behalf; and(i)the transferring and receiving States agree to the
transfer.

### 2\. A request for transfer of the sentenced person shall be refused under
this Treaty on any of the following conditions:

(a)if the transfer of the sentenced person to the receiving State shall be
prejudicial to the sovereignty, security, public order or any other essential
interest of the transferring State;(b)if the sentenced person was sentenced in
respect of an offence under the law of the transferring State:\- against the
internal or external security of the State;\- against the Head of State or a
member of his immediate family; or\- against the legislation protecting
national art treasures;(c)if the sentenced person has been convicted for an
offence under the military law.Article 5Obligation to Provide Information

### 1\. If the sentenced person has expressed an interest to be transferred
under this Treaty, the transferring State shall, upon request from the
receiving State, provide the following information and documents to the
receiving State:

(a)the name and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced person
and his address, if any, in the receiving State along with a copy of his
passport or any other personal identification documents, and fingerprints of
the sentenced person, as possible;(b)a statement of the facts upon which the
sentence was based;(c)the nature, duration and date of commencement of the
sentence;(d)a certified copy of the judgment and a copy of the relevant
provisions of the law under which the sentence has been passed against the
sentenced person;(e)the written willingness of sentenced person to be
transferred or of a person entitled to act on his behalf, if any;(f)a medical,
social or any other report on the sentenced person, where it is relevant for
the disposal of the sentenced person's application or for deciding the nature
of his confinement;(g)a statement indicating how much of the sentence has
already been served, including information on any pre-trial detention,
remission, or any other factor relevant to the enforcement of the
sentence;(h)any other information which the receiving State may specify as
required, to enable it to consider the possibility of transfer and to enable
it to inform the sentenced person of the full consequences of transfer for him
under its law; and(i)a statement from the transferring State stating that the
sentenced person is prima facie eligible to apply for transfer under this
Treaty.

### 2\. For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request under
this Treaty, the receiving State shall send the following information and
documents to the transferring State:

(a)a statement or document indicating that the sentenced person is a national
of the receiving State;(b)a copy of the relevant law of the receiving State
which provides that the acts or omissions on account of which the sentence has
been imposed in the transferring State constitute a criminal offence according
to the law of the receiving State, or would constitute a criminal offence if
committed on its territory;(c)a statement of the effect of any law or
regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of the sentence in the
receiving State after the sentenced person's transfer including, if
applicable, a statement of the effect Article 9 paragraph 2 of this Treaty on
the sentenced person's transfer;(d)the written willingness of the receiving
State to accept the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to
administer the remaining part of the sentence of the sentenced person;(e)copy
of the documents received from the transferring State as mentioned in
paragraph 1 of this Article; and(f)any other information or document which the
transferring State may consider necessary.Article 6Requests and Replies

### 1\. Both Contracting States shall inform the sentenced person within the
scope of this Treaty of the substance of the Treaty.

### 2\. Every transfer under this Treaty shall be commenced through diplomatic
channels by a written request in the prescribed proforma, if any, from the
receiving State to the transferring State.

The transferring State shall inform the receiving State through the same
channels and without delay of its decision on whether to approve or to refuse
the request for transfer. If the transferring State approves the request, both
Contracting States shall take all measures necessary for effectuating the
sentenced person's transfer.Article 7Consent and Its Verification

### 1\. The transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give
consent to the transfer in accordance with Article 4 paragraph 1(h) of this
Treaty does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal consequences
thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed by the law of
the transferring State.

### 2\. The transferring State shall afford an opportunity to the receiving
State to verify that the consent is given in accordance with the conditions
set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.

Article 8Effect of Transfer for the Receiving State

### 1\. The competent authorities of the receiving State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court or administrative order, as may be
required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 9 of
this Treaty.

### 2\. Subject to the provisions of Article 11 of this Treaty, the
enforcement of the sentence after transfer shall be governed by the laws and
procedures of the receiving State.

### 3. The receiving State may treat under its law relating to juveniles any
sentenced persons so categorized under its law regardless of that person's
status under the law of the transferring State.

Article 9Continued Enforcement of Sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of
the sentence as determined by the transferring State.

### 2\. If the sentence is by its nature or duration, or both, incompatible
with the law of the receiving State, that State may, with the prior consent of
the transferring State, by court of administrative order, adapt the sentence
to a sentence prescribed by its own law for a similar offence. As to its
nature and duration, the adapted sentence shall, as far as possible,
correspond with that imposed by the judgment of the transferring State. It
shall, however, not aggravate, by its nature or duration, the sentence imposed
by the transferring State.

Article 10Effect of Completion of Sentence for the Transferring StateWhen the
receiving State notifies the transferring State under Article 14 paragraph
1(b) of this Treaty that the sentence has been completed, such notification
shall have the effect of discharging that sentence in the transferring
State.Article 11Review of Judgment and Pardon, Amnesty or Commutation

### 1\. The transferring State alone shall decide on any application for
review of the judgment.

### 2\. Either of the Contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty, or
commutation of the sentence in accordance with its constitution or other laws.

Article 12Termination of Enforcement of Sentence

### 1\. The transferring State shall promptly notify the receiving State of
any decision taken in its territory which entails terminating the enforcement
of the sentence or part thereof.

### 2\. The receiving State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence or
part thereof as soon as it is informed by the transferring State of any
decision or measure as a result of which the sentence ceases to be
enforceable.

Article 13Modification of Enforcement of SentenceIf the transferring State
revises or modifies enforcement of the sentence, the receiving State shall,
upon being notified of the decision, give effect thereto in accordance with
the provisions of this Treaty as a result of which the sentence is revised or
modified.Article 14Information on Enforcement of Sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall notify the transferring State:

(a)if the sentenced person is granted conditional release;(b)when the
enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or(c)If the sentenced person
escapes from custody before enforcement of the sentence has been completed. In
such cases the receiving State shall take measures to secure the sentenced
person's arrest for the purposes of serving the remainder of his sentence and
to render the sentenced person's liable for committing an offence under the
relevant law of the receiving State.

### 2\. The receiving State shall provide a special report concerning the
enforcement of the sentence, if so required by the transferring State.

Article 15Transit

### 1\. If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer
of sentenced persons with any third State, the other Contracting State shall
cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of the sentenced
persons being transferred pursuant to such arrangements, except that it may
refuse to grant transit:

(a)if the sentenced person is one of its own nationals; or(b)if the request
may infringe upon the sovereignty, safety, public order or any other essential
interest of the Contracting State.

### 2\. The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall give
advance notice to the other Contracting State of such transit.

Article 16CostsThe costs incurred in the transfer of the sentenced person or
in the enforcement of the sentence after transfer shall be borne by the
receiving State, except costs incurred exclusively in the territory of the
transferring State. The receiving State may, however, seek to recover all or
part of the costs of transfer from the sentenced person.Article 17Language

### 1\. Requests and supporting documents, including certified summary of the
judgment, shall be in English or shall be accompanied by a translation into
English.

### 2\. In case of translation of judgment, if required, the transferring
State may convey the cost of such translation to the receiving State which may
in turn be borne by the sentenced person or from any other source.

Article 18Scope of ApplicationThis Treaty shall be applicable to the
enforcement of sentences imposed either before or after the entry into force
of this Treaty.Article 19ConsultationsThe Contracting States shall endeavor to
mutually resolve any issue arising out of the interpretation, application or
implementation of this Treaty through mutual consultations.Article 20Handing
Over of Sentenced PersonsThe handing over of the sentenced person by the
transferring State to the receiving State shall occur at a place to be agreed
upon between the transferring and receiving States within the territory of the
transferring State. The receiving State shall be responsible for the transport
of the sentenced person from the transferring State and shall also be
responsible for custody of the sentenced person outside the territory of the
transferring State.Article 21Amendments

### 1\. The Contracting States may mutually agree to amend this Treaty at any
time.

### 2\. Any amendments or modifications to this Treaty agreed by the
Contracting States shall come into effect when confirmed by the exchange of
diplomatic notes.

Article 22Final Provisions

### 1\. This Treaty shall be subject to ratification and shall enter into
force on the date on which instruments of ratification are exchanged. This
exchange of instruments shall take place as soon as possible.

### 2\. The Treaty shall remain in force for an indefinite period. It may,
however, be terminated by either of the Contracting States by giving a written
notice of termination to the other Contracting State. The termination shall
take effect after six months of the date of receipt of such notice.

### 3\. Notwithstanding any termination, this Treaty shall continue to apply
to the enforcement of sentences of the sentenced persons who have been
transferred under this Treaty before the date on which such termination takes
effect.

In Witness Whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Treaty.Done in duplicate at New Delhi
on the 25th day of January, 2012, in the Hindi, Thai and English languages,
all texts being equally authentic. In case of differences in interpretation,
the English text shall prevail.

Sd/-P. ChidambaramFor the Republic ofIndia |  Sd/-Surapong TpovichakchaikulFor theKingdom of Thailand  
---|---

