## International Treaty - Act

## Treaty between the Republic of India and the Federal Republic of Germany on
Extradition

TREATY  
India

# Treaty between the Republic of India and the Federal Republic of Germany on
Extradition

## Rule TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-FEDERAL-REPUBLIC-OF-
GERMANY-ON-EXTRADITION of 2004

  * Published on 28 May 2004 
  * Commenced on 28 May 2004 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 May 2004.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Treaty between the Republic of India and the Federal Republic of Germany on
ExtraditionPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R. 346(E), dated 28th May,
2004Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R. 346(E). - Whereas the Treaty
between the Republic of India and the Federal Republic of Germany on
Extradition was signed at Berlin, Federal Republic of Germany on 27th June,
2001; and the instruments of ratification exchanged at New Delhi on 28th
April, 2004 and which treaty provides as follows :The Republic of India and
the Federal Republic of Germany, desiring to provide for more effective co-
operation between the two States in the suppression of crime and,
specifically, to facilitate extradition, have agreed as follows :Article
1Obligation to extradite(1) The Contracting States shall extradite to each
other subject to the provisions Described in this Treaty any person found in
the territory of one of the Contracting States who is wanted by a competent
authority of the Requesting State for, or has been convicted of, an
extraditable offence:(2) When the offence has been committed outside the
territory of the Requesting State, the Requested State shall grant extradition
subject to the provisions described in this Treaty if:(a) its laws would
provide for the punishment for such an offence committed in similar
circumstances, or(b) the person whose extradition is requested is a national
of the Requesting State.Article 2Extraditable Offences(1) Extraditable
offences under this Treaty are offences which are punishable under the laws of
both Contracting States. In this connection it shall not matter whether or not
the laws of the Contracting States place the offence within the same category
of offences or denominate an offence by the same terminology.(2) For offences
in connection with taxes, fiscal charges and customs duties, extradition shall
be granted in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty only if the said
offence corresponds to an offence of a similar nature under the law of the
requested Contracting State.(3) Extradition shall be granted in respect of
offences which, under the laws of both Contracting States, are punishable by a
maximum term of imprisonment or other form of deprivation of liberty of at
least one year. Where extradition is requested for the purpose of enforcing a
term of imprisonment or another form of deprivation of liberty, the duration
of the remainder of the prison sentence or other deprivation of liberty which
is to be enforced must total at least six months.(4) Subject to the conditions
set out in paragraph 1, extradition shall also be granted in respect of an
attempt or conspiracy to commit, or aiding, abetting, inciting or
participating as an accomplice in the commission of, an extraditable
offence.(5) Where extradition is granted in respect of an extraditable
offence, it shall also be granted in respect of any other extraditable offence
which, taken alone, would not be extraditable in terms of paragraph 3.Article
3Political Offences(1) Extradition shall not be granted if the offence in
respect of which it is requested is regarded by the Requested State as a
political offence, an offence of a political character, or as an offence
connected with such an offence.(2) Extradition shall also not be granted if
the Requested State has substantial grounds for believing that a request for
extradition has been made for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing a person
on account of his or her race, religion, nationality or political opinion, or
that the position of the person sought may be prejudiced for any of these
reasons.(3) For the purpose of this Treaty the following offences shall not be
deemed to be offences within the meaning of paragraph 1:(a) an offence within
the scope of the 1970 Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure
of Aircraft:(b) an offence within the scope of the 1971 Montreal Convention
for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation;(c)
an offence within the scope of the 1973 New York Convention on the Prevention
and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons, including
Diplomatic Agents:(d) an offence within the scope of the 1979 New York
Convention against the Taking of Hostages:(e) any other offence in respect of
which both Contracting States have the obligation pursuant to a multilateral
international agreement to extradite the person sought or to submit his or her
case to their competent authorities for a decision as to prosecution;(f)
murder manslaughter or culpable homicide, maliciously wounding or inflicting
grievous bodily harm;(g) kidnapping, abduction, or any comparable form of
unlawful detention, including the taking of hostages;(h) placing or using an
explosive, detonating device, destructive device, firearm or ammunition,
capable of endangering life, or of causing grievous bodily harm, or of causing
substantial property damage;(i) any other offence related to terrorism which
at the time of the request is, under the law of the Requested State, not to be
regarded as a political offence;(j) an attempt or conspiracy to commit, or
aiding, abetting, inciting or participating in the commission of, any of the
foregoing offences.Article 4Military OffencesExtradition shall not be granted
if the offence in respect of which it is requested is a military offence which
is not an offence under ordinary criminal law.Article 5Grounds for
Discretionary RefusalExtradition may be refused if the Requested State
considers that, having regard to all the circumstances, including the trivial
nature of the offence, or in the interest of justice, it would be unjust or
inexpedient to extradite the person.Article 6Extradition of own National(1)
Neither of the Contracting States shall be bound to extradite its own
nationals.(2) The Requested State shall take all legally permissible measures
in order to suspend naturalisation proceedings in respect of the person sought
until a decision has been taken concerning the request for his or her
extradition and, where the extradition request is granted, until his or her
surrender.(3) If the Requested State does not extradite its own nationals, it
shall, at the behest of the Requesting State, submit the case to its competent
authorities so that criminal prosecution may be effected if considered
appropriate. If the Requested State seeks additional files, papers and
property, these shall be provided free of charge. The Requesting State shall
be informed of the result of its request.Article 7Lapse of TimeExtradition
shall not be granted if the criminal prosecution or the enforcement of the
prison sentence or other form of deprivation of liberty has become statute-
barred under the law of the Requesting State.Article 8Avoidance of Double
JeopardyExtradition shall not be granted if the competent authorities of the
Requested State have, with full and binding effect, previously tried and
acquitted or convicted the person sought in relation to the criminal offence
in respect of which extradition is requested, or if the criminal proceedings
against him or her have been irreversibly discontinued by the competent
authorities of the Requested State in accordance with its own law.Article
9Jurisdiction of the Requested StateExtradition may be refused if the person
sought is proceeded against in the Requested State for the same offence in
respect of which extradition is requested.Article 10Complaint and
AuthorisationIf a complaint by or on behalf of the victim of an offence or an
authorisation to prosecute is required by the law of the Requested State, the
absence of such a complaint or authorisation shall not affect the obligation
to extradite.Article 11Capital PunishmentWhen the offence in respect of which
extradition is requested is punishable by death under the laws of the
Requesting State and the laws of the Requested State do not permit such
punishment for that offence, extradition may be refused unless the Requesting
State furnishes such assurances as the Requested State considers sufficient
that the death penalty shall not be imposed or, if imposed, shall not be
enforced.Article 12Channel of Communication; Extradition Documents(1) A
request for the extradition of a person sought shall be made in writing and
shall be transmitted through diplomatic channels.(2) The request shall be
accompanied by(a) all available information concerning the identity and
nationality of the person sought; and(b) a copy of the applicable statutory
provisions, if any, creating the offence, or a statement of the applicable
law, and in either case a statement of the punishment that can be imposed.(3)
A request for the extradition of a person sought for the purpose of
prosecution shall be accompanied, in addition to the documents provided for in
paragraph 2, by the original or a certified copy of the arrest warrant issued
in respect of the person sought, a description of each offence in respect of
which the person is being sought and, where such information is not contained
in the other documentation, a statement of the acts or omissions alleged
against the person sought in respect of each such offence.(4) A request for
the extradition of a person sought, lodged for the purpose of enforcing a,
sentence, shall be accompanied, in addition to the documents provided for in
paragraph 2, by the original or a certified copy of the enforceable judgment,
a summary statement of the facts of the case, where such information is not
contained in the other documentation, such documents as provide proof of the
final and binding conviction and a statement that the sentence is immediately
enforceable and of the extent to which that sentence has not been enforced.(5)
The accompanying documents listed in paragraphs 2 to 4 shall be signed by a
judge or a competent official and authenticated by the official seal of the
competent ministry.(6) If the extradition of a person sought to the Requesting
State is not obviously precluded by the laws of the Requested Stale, and
provided that the person sought consents for the record before a judge or a
competent official to this extradition after personally being advised of his
or her rights to formal extradition proceedings, the Requested State may grant
his or her extradition without formal extradition proceedings having taken
place.Article 13Additional Documentation(1) If the Requested State considers
that the documentation furnished in support of the request for the extradition
of a person sought is not sufficient to fulfil the requirements of this
Treaty, that State shall request the submission of necessary additional
documentation; it may fix a time limit and upon the Requesting State's
application, for which reasons shall be given, may grant a reasonable
extension of the time limit.(2) If the person sought is being held in custody
and the additional documentation or information submitted as aforesaid is not
sufficient, or if it is not received within the period specified by the
Requested State, the person sought shall be released from custody. However,
such release shall not bar a subsequent request in respect of the same
offence. In this connection, it shall be sufficient for reference to be made
in the subsequent request to supporting documents which have already been
submitted, provided that these documents will be available in the extradition
proceedings carried out on the basis of this subsequent request.Article
14Provisional Detention while Awaiting Extradition(1) In urgent cases, either
Contracting State may apply for the provisional arrest of the person sought
until the request for extradition has been submitted to the Requested State
through diplomatic channels. The request for provisional arrest may be made
either through diplomatic channels or directly between the Federal Ministry of
Justice of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of External
Affairs of the Republic of India, or through the German and the Indian
national Central Bureau of the International Criminal Police Organisation.(2)
The request for provisional arrest shall state that a warrant of arrest or a
judgment as mentioned in Article 12 exists, and that it is intended to make a
request for extradition. It shall also state the offences in respect of which
extradition will be requested, and when and where such offences were
committed, as well as providing all available information concerning the
description and nationality of the person sought.(3) On receipt of a request
for provisional arrest, the Requested State shall take the necessary steps to
secure the arrest of the person sought. The Requesting State shall be informed
without delay of the extent to which its request has been complied with.(4)
Provisional detention shall be terminated if, within a period of 60 days after
the apprehension of the person sought, the Requested State has not received
the request for extradition and the documents specified in Article 12.(5) The
termination of the provisional detention pursuant to paragraph 4 shall not
prejudice the rearrest and the extradition of the person sought if the request
for extradition and the supporting documents specified in Article 12, insofar
as they were not submitted in a timely manner, are received at a later date.
Reference may be made to the request for extradition and the documents which
have already been transmitted to the Requested State.Article 15Requests for
Extradition made by Several States(1) A Contracting State which has received
concurrent requests for extradition of the same person, either in respect of
the same offence or of different offences, from the other Contracting State
and from a third State, shall make its decision having regard to all the
circumstances, including the relative seriousness and the places of commission
of the offence, the nationality of the person sought and the provisions of any
extradition agreements between the Requested State and the Requesting States
as well as, in particular, the possibility of subsequent re-extradition to
another Requesting State.(2) If the Requested State reaches a decision at the
same time on extradition to one of the Requesting States and on re-extradition
to another Requesting State, it shall communicate that decision on re-
extradition to each of the Requesting States.Article 16Decision(1) The
Requested State shall promptly communicate to the Requesting State its
decision on the request for extradition.(2) The Requested State shall, as far
as possible give reasons for any complete or partial refusal of the request
for extradition.Article 17Deferred SurrenderThe Requested State may, after a
decision on the request has been rendered by a competent court, defer the
decision on the surrender of the person sought if that person is being
proceeded against, or is serving a sentence or a measure of correction and
security in the Requested State in respect of a different offence from the one
for which extradition was requested, until the conclusion of the proceedings
and the full execution of any punishment which may be, or may have been,
imposed on him or her. In this case the Requested State shall notify the
Requesting State.Article 18Surrender of the Person Sought(1) If the
extradition has been granted, surrender of the person sought shall take place
within such time as may be provided for by the laws of the Requested State. If
no time period for surrender is provided for by the laws of the Requested
State, surrender shall take place within 30 days from the date on which the
Requesting State has been notified that the extradition has been granted. The
time period may be extended by 20 days at the request of the Requesting State.
The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall agree on the time
and place of the surrender of the person sought.(2) If the person sought is
not removed from the territory of the Requested State within the time required
under paragraph 1, he may be released. The Requested State may subsequently
refuse to extradite the person sought for the same offence.(3) If exceptional
circumstances prevent a Contracting State from surrendering or taking delivery
of the person sought in good time, it shall notify the other Contracting State
accordingly prior to the expiration of the time limit. In such a case, the
competent authorities of the Contracting States may agree upon a new date for
the surrender.(4) The Requested State shall inform the Requesting State as to
how long the person sought has been detained awaiting extradition and of the
date of his apprehension.Article 19Rule of Speciality(1) Without prejudice to
paragraph 3 below, a person extradited under this Treaty shall not:

### 1. in the Requesting State be detained or tried, or be subjected to any
other restriction of his personal liberty for any offence committed before his
extradition, other than in respect of:

(a)an offence in respect of which he was extradited, or another offence in
respect of which he could be convicted based on the proven facts used to
support the request for his extradition, or(b)another extraditable offence in
respect of which the Requested State has consented to his or her being so
detained or tried, or subjected to any other restriction of his or her
personal liberty; or

### 2. be detained in the Requesting State for the purpose of his or her
extradition to a third State, or be re-extradited to such a State, unless the
Requested State consents to this.

(2)A request for the consent of the Requested State under this Article shall
be accompanied by all the relevant documents specified in Article 12 and by a
court record of statements made by the person extradited. Paragraph 1 of
Article 13 shall apply mutatis mutandis.(3)Paragraph 1 shall not apply if the
person extradited, although having had an opportunity to leave the territory
of the Requesting State, has not done so within 45 days of his or her final
release, or has returned to that territory after leaving it. Release on parole
or probation without an order restricting the freedom of movement of the
extradited person shall be deemed equivalent to final release.Article
20Notification of the Outcome of the Criminal ProceedingsThe Requesting State
shall notify the Requested State, upon demand by the latter, of the outcome of
the criminal proceedings being conducted in respect of the extradited person
and shall send a copy of the final and binding decision to the Requested
State.Article 21Surrender of Property(1)To the extent permitted under the laws
of the Requested State, all articles which may serve as evidence, or which
have been acquired as a result of an offence, or which have been obtained as
consideration for such articles, and which at the time of arrest are found in
the possession of the person sought or are discovered subsequently, shall be
surrendered if extradition is granted. Surrender of such articles shall be
possible even without any special, request and, if possible, at the same time
that the person sought is surrendered.(2)Subject to the conditions specified
in paragraph 1, the articles mentioned therein shall be surrendered even if
the person sought cannot be surrendered owing to his or her death or
escape.(3)Insofar as rights of the Requested State or of third parties to the
articles are to be respected, the Requested State may refuse surrender or make
surrender conditional upon a satisfactory assurance from the Requesting State
that the articles will be returned to the Requested State as soon as
possible.Article 22Mutual Legal Assistance in Connection with ExtraditionEach
Contracting State shall, to the extent permitted by its law, afford the other
the widest possible measure of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters in
connection with the offence in respect of which extradition has been
requested.Article 23Transit(1)Transit of a person who is the subject of
extradition from a third State through the territory of a Contracting State to
the territory of the other Contracting State shall be granted upon submission
of a request, provided that the offence concerned is an extraditable offence
under Article 2, and that the Contracting State requested to grant transit
does not consider the offence to be one covered by Article 3 or 4.(2)Transit
of a national of the Requested State may be refused if, in the opinion of that
State, it is inadmissible under its law.(3)The request for transit must be
accompanied by the documents mentioned in Article 12.(4)Article 11 shall apply
mutatis mutandis.Article 24Personal Data(1)Personal data, hereinafter referred
to as "data", shall be understood to be particulars on the personal or factual
situation of an identified or identifiable natural person.(2)Data transmitted
on the basis of this Treaty shall only be used for the purposes for which the
data were transmitted and on the conditions determined by the transmitting
Contracting State in each individual case. In addition such data may be used
for the following purposes:(a)for the prosecution of offences,(b)for the
prevention of offences of considerable importance,(c)for non criminal court
proceedings and administrative proceedings which are related to the use for
which the data were transmitted pursuant to the first sentence or related to
the use outlined in sub-paragraphs a) and b),(d)toward off a substantial
danger to public security.Use of the data for other purposes shall require the
prior consent of the Contracting State transmitting the data
concerned.(3)Subject to the domestic legal provisions of each Contracting
State, the following provisions shall apply to the transmission and use of
data:(a)Upon request, the Contracting State which has received the data shall
inform the transmitting State of the data received, of the use made of the
data and of the results achieved therefrom.(b)The Contracting States shall
carefully handle data transmitted under this Treaty and pay particular
attention to the accuracy and completeness of such data. Only data that relate
to the request shall be transmitted. If it appears that incorrect data have
been transmitted or that data that should not have been transmitted were
transmitted, the Contracting State that has received the data shall be
notified without delay. The Contracting State that has received the data shall
rectify or correct any errors or erase the data.(c)The Contracting States
shall keep records in an appropriate form concerning the transmission and
receipt of data.(d)The Contracting States shall afford effective protection of
the data transmitted against unauthorised access, unauthorised alteration and
unauthorised publication.(e)Upon request, the person concerned shall be
informed about existing data relating him as well as about the purpose for
which they are to be used and the purpose of their storage. There shall be no
obligation to give information where on a weighing of interests, the public
interest in not giving information is found to outweigh the interest of the
person concerned in being informed. In all other respects the right of the
person concerned to be informed of existing data relating to him shall be
governed by the domestic law of the Contracting State in whose territory the
information is requested.(f)If as a result of transmissions in the context of
data ,exchange under this Treaty a person suffers unlawful damage, the
receiving State shall be liable to him therefor according to its domestic law.
The receiving State, cannot, vis-a-vis the aggrieved person, invoke the fact
that the damage was caused by the transmitting State as a defence. If the
receiving State pays compensation for damage that was caused by using
incorrect data received from the transmitting State, the transmitting State
shall reimburse the receiving State in respect of such compensation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of its domestic law.Article
25Applicable LawExcept where this Treaty provides otherwise, the law of the
Requested State shall be applicable to proceedings relating to provisional
detention while awaiting extradition, to extradition and to transit.Article
26Language to be UsedThe documents transmitted in application of this Treaty
shall be in the language of the Requesting State. German requests shall be
accompanied by a translation into English, Indian requests by a translation
into German.Article 27ExpensesExpenses arising from the transportation of a
person sought to the Requesting State shall be borne by that State. Other
expenses arising from an extradition or a transit request shall not be claimed
by the Requested State from the Requesting State. The competent legal
officials of the State in which the extradition proceedings take place shall,
by all legal means within their power, assist the Requesting State before the
competent judges and officials.Article 28Scope of ApplicationThis Treaty shall
apply to offences encompassed by Article 2 committed before as well as after
the date on which this Treaty enters into force. Extradition shall not be
granted, however, in respect of an offence committed before this Treaty enters
into force which was not an offence under the laws of both Contracting States
at the time of its commission.Article 29RegistrationRegistration of this
Treaty with the Secretariat of the United Nations, in accordance with Article
102 of the Charter of the United Nations, shall be initiated by the Federal
Republic of Germany immediately following its entry into force. The other
Contracting State shall be informed of registration, and of the UN
registration number, as soon as this has been confirmed by the Secretariat of
the United Nations.Article 30Ratification; Entry into Force;
Denunciation(1)This Treaty shall be subject to ratification; the instruments
of ratification shall be exchanged in New Delhi as soon as possible.(2)This
Treaty shall enter into force 30 days after the exchange of the instruments of
ratification.(3)This Treaty shall continue in force until the expiration of
one year from the date on which written notice is given by one Contracting
State. The date of receipt of such notice by the other Contracting State shall
be definitive for determining the deadline.Done at Berlin on the 27th June,
2001 in duplicate in the Hindi, German and English languages, all three texts
being authentic. In case of divergent interpretation of the Hindi and the
German texts, the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of
the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 12 of the Extradition Act,
1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions
of the said Act, other than Chapter II, shall apply to the Federal Republic of
Germany with effect from the date of the publication of this notification.

