## International Treaty - Act

## Treaty in Extradition Between The Government of the Republic of India and
The Government of United Mexican States

TREATY  
India

# Treaty in Extradition Between The Government of the Republic of India and
The Government of United Mexican States

## Rule TREATY-IN-EXTRADITION-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-
AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-UNITED-MEXICAN-STATES of 2009

  * Published on 17 June 2009 
  * Commenced on 17 June 2009 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 June 2009.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Treaty in Extradition Between The Government of the Republic of India and The
Government of United Mexican StatesPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R.
525(E), dated 17th June, 2009Ministry of External AffairsG.S.R. 525(E). -
Whereas the Treaty on Extradition between the Government of the Republic of
India and the Government of United Mexican States was signed at New Delhi on
10th September, 2007; and the Instrument of Ratification exchanged at Mexico
on 18th December, 2008 and as per Article 23.2 of the Treaty, it has entered
into force from 17th January, 2009, and which Treaty provides as follows:The
Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United Mexican
States hereinafter referred to as "The Parties";Encouraged by the desire to
further strengthen the friendly relations between the parties;Desiring to
improve the effectiveness of the cooperation between both countries in
prevention and suppression of crime;Conscious of the importance of the co-
operation in the fight against crime and granting each other assistance on
reciprocal extradition of offenders;Recognizing that concrete steps are
necessary to combat terrorism;Based on mutual respect for the sovereignty and
equality between the states;Have agreed as follows :Article 1Obligation to
Extradite

### 1. Each Party undertakes to extradite to the Other, in the circumstances
and subject to the conditions specified in this Treaty, any person who, being
accused or sentenced of an extradition offence as described in Artic1e 2,
committed within the territory of a Party, is found within the territory of
the other Party, whether such offence was committed before or after the entry
into force of this Treaty.

### 2. Extradition shall also be available in respect of an extradition
offence as described in Article 2 committed outside the territory of the
Requesting Party but in respect of which it has jurisdiction if the Requested
Party would, in similar circumstances, have jurisdiction over such an offence.
In such circumstances the Requested Party shall have regard to all the
circumstances of the case including the seriousness of the offence.

### 3. In addition, extradition shall be available for an extradition offence
as described in Article 2 :

(a)If it is committed in a third State by a national of the Requesting Party
and this Party bases its jurisdiction on the nationality of the offender;
and(b)If it occurred within the territory of the Requested party and it would
an offence under the national legislation of that Party punishable With
imprisonment for a term of at least one (1) year.Article 2Extradition offences

### 1\. An extradition offence for the purpose of this Treaty is constituted
by a conduct, which pursuant to the national legislation of each Party is
punishable by a term of imprisonment for a period of at least one (1) year.

### 2\. An offence may be an extradition offence notwithstanding that it
relates to taxation or revenue or is one of a purely fiscal character.

### 3\. If the extradition is requested for the serving of sentence imposed in
the Requesting Party, the duration of the sentence left to be served shall be
at least for six (6) months.

### 4. For the purpose of this Treaty, extradition shall be considered in
respect of extraditable crimes included in multilateral conventions to which
both States are Parties.

Article 3Central Authorities

### 1\. All requests under this Treaty shall be made by the Central
Authorities of the Parties through Diplomatic Channels.

### 2\. For the Republic of India the Central Authority is the Ministry of
External Affairs and in the United Mexican States the Central Authority is the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Article 4Composite Offences and Dual CriminalityExtradition shall be available
in accordance with this Treaty for an extradition offence, notwithstanding
that the conduct of the person sought occurred wholly or a part in the
Requested Party, if under the national legislation of the Party this conduct
and its effects, or its intended effects, taken as a whole, would be regarded
as constituting the commission of an extradition offence in the territory of
the Requesting Party.Article 5Extradition of NationalityThe Requested Party
shall consider the extradition of its nationals. The nationality for this
purpose shall be as at the time of the commission of the offence.Article 6Aut
Dedere Aut Judicare(Extradition or Prosecution)

### 1\. The request for extradition may be refused by the Requested Party if
the person whose extradition is sought may be tried for the extradition
offence in the courts of tribunals of that Party.

### 2\. Where the Requested Party refuses the extradition for the reason set
out in paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall submit the case to its competent
authorities so that prosecution may be considered. Those authorities shall
take their decision in the Same manner as in the case of any offence of a
serious nature under the national legislation of that Party.

### 3\. If the competent authorities decide not to prosecute in such a case,
the extradition shall be reconsidered at the request of the Requesting Party,
in accordance with this Treaty.

Article 7Political Offence

### 1\. Extradition shall be refused if the offence for which it is requested
is an offence of a political character, or related with an offence of
political character, according to each Party's national legislation.

### 2\. For the purpose of this Treaty, the following offences shall not be
regarded as offences of political character:

(a)offences under International Conventions to which both States are
Parties;(b)murder;(c)manslaughter or culpable homicide;(d)assault occasioning
actual bodily harm, or causing injury, maliciously wounding or inflicting
grievous bodily harm whether by means of a weapon, a dangerous substance or
otherwise;(e)the causing of an explosion likely to endanger life or cause
serious damage to property;(f)the making or possession of an explosive
substance by a person to intend either himself or another person to endanger
life or cause serious damage to property;(g)the possession of a firearm or
ammunition by a person who intends either himself or through another person to
endanger life;(h)the use of a firearm by a person with intent to resist or
prevent the arrest or detention of himself or another person;(i)damaging
property whether used for public utilities or otherwise. With intent to
endanger life or with reckless disregard as to whether the life of another
would thereby be endangered;(j)kidnapping, abduction, false imprisonment or
unlawful detention, including the taking of a hostage;(k)incitement to
murder;(l)any other offence related to terrorism which at the time of the
request is under the national legislation of the Requesting Party, not to be
regarded as an offence of a political character; and(m)an attempt or
cortspiracy to commit any of the foregoing offences or participation as an
accomplice of a person who commits or attempts to commit such an
offence.Article 8Grounds for Refusal of ExtraditionThe extradition may be
refused :

### 1\. If the person sought is being prosecuted by the Requested Party for
the same offence for which the extradition has been requested;

### 2\. If the person sought has been finally acquitted or convicted and
sentenced in the Requested Party or a third State for the same offence for
which the extradition is requested;

### 3\. If a person who has been convicted of an extradition offence and
sentenced to imprisonment or other form of detention for a period of less than
six (6) months;

### 4\. Had he been tried in the territory of the Requested Party for the
offence for which his extradition is requested, he would have been entitled to
be discharged under any rule of the national legislation of the Requested
Party relation to previous acquittal or sentence;

### 5. When the prosecution has become barred by lapse of time according to
the national legislation of the Requesting Party;

### 6. When the Requested Party has well founded reasons to believed that the
request for extradition has been presented with the intention to prosecute or
punish the person sought, by reason of race, religion or gender.

### 7. If the offence for which extradition is requested is an offence under
military law, which is not also an offence under the ordinary criminal law.

### 8. If the extradition for the same offence has been previously denied on
the same grounds and with regard to the same person.

### 9. If the offence for which the extradition is requested is Punishable by
death under the law of the Requesting Party, and the death-penalty is not
provided for Requesting Party gives such assurance as the Requested Party
considers sufficient that the death-penalty will not be imposed or carried
out.

Article 9Postponement of SurrenderIf criminal proceedings against the person
sought are instituted in the territory of the Requested Party, or he is
lawfully detained in consequence of criminal proceedings, the decision whether
or not to extradite him may be postponed until the criminal proceedings have
been completed or he is no longer detained.Article 10Extradition Procedures

### 1\. The requested shall be made in writing and accompanied by :

(a)as accurate a description as possible of the person sought, together with
any other information which would help to establish his identity, nationality
and residence, including possible location;(b)a statement of facts of the
offence for which extradition in requested, and(c)the text of national
legislation:(i)Defining the offence;(ii)prescribing the maximum punishment for
that offence; and(iii)establishment the time limit for the prosecution of the
offence.

### 2\. If the request relates to an accused person, it must also be
accompanied by a certified copy of the charging document establishing
accusation, the warrant of arrest issued by a Judge, Magistrate or other
competent authority in the territory of the Requesting Party and by such
evidence as, in accordance with the national legislation of the Requested
Party would justify his committal for trial if the offence had been committed
within the territory of the Requested Party.

### 3\. If the request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, it
shall be accompanied by :

(a)certified copies of the warrant of arrest, order of conviction and
sentence; and,(b)a statement that the conviction or sentence was final and
showing the remainder of the sentence to be served.

### 4\. If the Requested Party considers that the evidence produced or
information supplied for the purposes of this Treaty is not sufficient in
order to enable a decision to be taken as to the request, additional evidence
or information shall be submitted within such time as the Requested Party may
require.

Article 11Provisional Arrest

### 1\. In urgent cases the person sought may, in accordance with the national
legislation of the Requested Party, be provisionally arrested by the competent
authorities of the Requested Party. The application shall contain an
indication of intention to request the formal extradition of that person and a
statement of the existence of a warrant of arrest against him and, if
available, his description and such further information, if any, as would be
necessary to justify the issue of a warrant of arrest as :

(a)time and place of the offence committed;(b)circumstances of the
commission;(c)proper information to determine the identity and nationality of
the person sought.

### 2\. The request for provisional arrest shall be executed by the competent
authorities of the Requested Party in accordance with its national
legislation. The Requesting Party shall be informed of the result of the
execution of request.

### 3\. The person arrested provisionally could be released if within a period
of sixty (60) days of the arrest of the person sought, the Requested Party has
not received the formal request for extradition and the documents required
pursuant to Article 10 of this Treaty.

### 4\. The Requesting Party may present a further request even though the
provisional arrest has ended. The new request shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of this Treaty.

Article 12Documents and Evidence

### 1\. In all cases the documents submitted in accordance with the provisions
of this Treaty shall be authenticated by the competent authority, in
accordance with the national legislation of the Requested Party and
accompanied by a translation in the official language of the Requested Party
or in English.

### 2\. The authorities of the Requested Party shall admit as evidence, in any
proceedings for extradition, any evidence taken on oath or by way of
affirmation, any warrant and any certificate of, or judicial document stating
the fact of a conviction, if it is authenticated:

(a)(i)in the case of a warrant being signed, or in the case of any original
document by being certified, by a Judge, Magistrate or other competent
authority of the Requesting Party; and(ii)either by oath of some witness or by
being sealed with the official seal of the appropriate Minister of the
Requesting Party; or(b)in such other manner as may be permitted by the
national legislation of the Requested Party.

### 3\. The evidence described in paragraph (2) shall be admissible in
extradition proceedings in the Requested Party whether sworn or affirmed in
the Requesting Party or in some third State.

Article 13Summary ExtraditionIf the person sought informs the competent
authorities of the Requested Party that he agrees to be extradited, that Party
may stop further proceedings, and take all measures for extradition subject to
its national legislation in an expeditious manner.Article 14Conflicting
RequestsIf extradition of the same person is requested, whether for the same
or for different offences by the other Party and a third State with whom the
Requested Party has extradition arrangements, the Requested Party shall
determine to which State the person shall be extradited, and shall not be
obliged to give preference to the other Party to this Treaty.Article
15Surrender

### 1\. If extradition is granted, the person sought shall be sent by the
authorities of the Requested Party to a convenient point of departure form its
territory, in consultation with the Requesting Party.

### 2\. The Requesting Party shall remove the person sought from the territory
of the Requested Party within sixty days (60) or such longer period as may be
permitted under the national legislation of the Requested Party. If he/she is
not removed within that period, the Requested Party may release the person and
refuse to extradite him her for the same offence.

Article 16Seizure and Surrender of Property

### 1\. To the extent permitted under its national legislation, the Requested
Party may seize and surrender to the Requesting Party, all articles,
documents, and evidence connected with the offence in respect of which
extradition is granted. The items mentioned in this Article may be surrendered
even when the, tradition cannot be effected due to the death, disappearance,
or escape of the person sought.

### 2\. The Requested Party may condition the surrender of the property upon
satisfactory assurances from the Requesting Party that the property will be
returned to the Requested Party as soon as possible. The Requested Party may
also defer the surrender of such property if it is needed as evidence in the
Requested Party.

### 3\. The rights of third parties in such property shall be duly respected.

Article 17Rule of Speciality

### 1\. Any person who is surrendered to the Requesting Party under this
Treaty shall not be, during the period described in paragraph (2) of this
Article, arrested, imprisoned or tried within the territory of the Requesting
Party for or in respect of any offence committed before he was extradited to
that territory other than;

a. the offence in respect of which he was extradited;b. any lesser offence
disclosed by the facts proved for the purposes of securing his surrender other
than an offence in relation to which an order for his extradition could not
lawfully be made; orc. any other offence in respect of which the Requested
Party may consent to his arrest, imprisonment or trial concerning the offence
other than an offence in relation to which an order for his extradition could
not lawfully be made or would not in fact be made.

### 2\. The period referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article is period
beginning with the day of his arrival in the territory of the Requesting party
or his extradition under this Treaty and ending forty-five (45) days after the
first subsequent day on which he has the opportunity to leave the territory of
the Requesting Party.

### 3\. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply to
offences committed after the return of a person under this Treaty or matters
arising in relation to such offences.

Article 18Re-ExtraditionA person shall not be re-extradited to a third State,
except when, having had an opportunity to leave the territory of the State to
which he has been surrendered, he has not done so within sixty (60) days of
his final discharge, or has returned to that territory after having left
it.Article 19ExpensesExpenses incurred in the territory of the Requested Party
on account of the execution of the request for extradition shall be borne by
that Party. The expenses on account of the transfer of the fugitive shall be
borne by the requesting Party:Article 20Obligation under International
ConventionsThe present Treaty shall not affect the rights and obligations of
the Parties in respect of extradition arising form International
Conventions/Treaties to which both are States Parties.Article
21ConsultationsAny difference arising out of the application, interpretation
or implementation of the present Treaty shall be resoled amicably through
consultations between the Central authorities.Article 22Transit

### 1\. Either Party may authorize transportation through its territory of a
person surrendered to the other Party by a third State. A request for transit
shall be made through diplomatic channels. It shall contain a description of
the person being transported and a brief statement of the facts of the case. A
person in transit may be detained in custody during the period of transit.

### 2\. No authorization is required where air transportation is used and no
landing is scheduled on the territory of the Party. In case of an unscheduled
landing on the territory of one Party, the other Party may require the request
for transit as provided in paragraph 1. That Party shall detain the person to
be transported until the request for transit is received and the transit is
effected, so long as the request is received within ninety-six (96) hours of
the unscheduled landing.

Article 23Final Provisions

### 1\. This Treaty is subject to ratification and the instruments of
ratification shall be exchanged as soon as possible.

### 2\. This Treaty shall enter into force on the thirtieth (30th) day after
the exchange of the instruments of ratification.

### 3\. This Treaty may be amended by mutual consent.

### 4\. Either Party may terminate this Treaty. The termination shall take
effect six (6) months from the date on which it was notified to the other
Party.

### 5\. The request for extradition received prior to its termination shall be
considered under this Treaty.

Signed in duplicate at New Delhi this the tenth day of September 2007 in
Hindi, Spanish, and English, all texts being equally authentic. In case of any
divergence, the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of the
powers conferred by sub-section 1 of Section 3 of the Extradition Act, 1962
(34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the
said Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to the United Mexican States
with effect from the date of the publication of this notification.

