## Union of India - Act

## Union Territories (Laws) Act, 1950

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Union Territories (Laws) Act, 1950

## Act 30 of 1950

  * Published on 15 April 1950 
  * Commenced on 15 April 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 April 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Union Territories (Laws) Act, 1950(Act No. 30 of 1950)Last Updated 20th July,
2019Statement of Objects and Reasons. - Out of the ten States specified in
Part C of the First Schedule to the Constitution, only three, namely, Ajmer,
Coorg and Delhi, have been provided easy means of legislation to meet local
requirements. Article 242 of the Constitution enables the Coorg Legislative
Council to enact measures for that State, while the Ajmer-Merwara (Extension
of Laws) Act, 1947, and section 7 of the Delhi Laws Act, 1912, empower the
Central Government to extend to Ajmer and Delhi, respectively, any enactment
which is in force in any Part A State or any other Part C State. This latter
power has been frequently availed of in the past for extending to Delhi and
Ajmer Provincial Acts, with modifications to suit local conditions, thereby
saving very considerable expenditure of time and labour in the Central
Legislature. It is proposed that the same power should be conferred on the
Central Government in relation to the other seven Part C States.The Merged
State (Laws) Act, 1949, which came into force on 1st January, 1950, inter alia
provided for the extension of all the more important Central Acts and
Ordinance to four of the new Chief Commissioners' Provinces (now "Part C
State") namely, Bhopal, Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh and Kutch. Three more Chief
Commissioners' Provinces, namely, Manipur, Tripura ad Vindhya Pradesh,
subsequently came into existence on the 23rd January, 1950 by virtue of the
States. Merger (Chief Commissioners' Provinces) Order, 1950. It is necessary
to extend the abovementioned Central Acts and Ordinances proprio vigore to
these three Part C States, instead of relying on the corresponding law, if
any, which may have been in force in corresponding Indian State at the time it
was taken over by the Central Government or may subsequently have applied by
order the Extra-Provincial Jurisdiction Act.As regards Manipur which has large
tribal areas, it is considered that the Civil and Criminal Procedure Code and
certain other Acts should not be brought into force immediately in the whole
State, but should be applied later on with modification for which power would
be available under clause 2 of this Bill. The Indian Penal Code has also to be
slightly modified in its application to the State in view of certain peculiar
marriage customs prevailing there.The Bill is designed to give effect to the
above proposals.[Dated 15.4.1950.]An Act to provide for the extension of laws
to certain [Union territories.] [Substituted by the Adaptation of Laws (No. 2)
Order, 1956, for 'Part C States'.]Be it enacted by Parliament as follows: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Union Territories] [Substituted by the
Adaptation of Laws (No. 2) Order, 1956, for 'Part C States'.] (Laws) Act,
1950.(2)It shall come into force on the 16th day of April, 1950.

### 2. Power to extend enactments to certain Union territories.

\- The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, extend
to [the Union territory of Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur or Tripura or to
any part of such territory] [Substituted by the Adaptation of Laws (No. 2)
Order, 1956, for certain words.], with such restrictions and modifications as
it thinks fit, any enactment which is in force in a [State] [Substituted, by
the Adaptation of Laws (No. 2) Order, 1956, for 'Part A State'.] at the date
of the notification, [* * *] [Certain words, brackets and letters, omitted by
Act 48 of 1952, s. 3 and the Second Schedule.].

### 3. Extension of laws to Tripura, Vindhya Pradesh and Manipur.

(1)The Acts and Ordinances specified in the Schedule to the Merged States
(Laws) Act, 1949 (59 of 1949), are hereby extended to, and shall be in force
in, the States of Tripura and Vindhya Pradesh, as they are generally in force
in the territories to which they extend immediately before the commencement of
this Act.(2)[Subject to the provisions contained in sub-section (2A), the Acts
and ordinances referred to in sub-section (1)] [Substituted by Act 68 of 1956,
s. 2, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-1-1957).], are hereby extended to, and shall
be in force in, the State of Manipur as they are generally in force in the
territories to which they extend immediately before the commencement of this
Act:Provided that the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) in its application to the
State of Manipur shall have effect as if -(a)in section 361, for the word
"eighteen" the word "fifteen" had been substituted, and(b)in section 375, for
the word "sixteen" in clause Fifthly the word "fourteen" had been substituted,
and for the word "fifteen" in the Exception the word "thirteen" had been
substituted.(2A)[ The Acts specified in Part A of the Schedule to this Act
shall not extend to the State of Manipur, and the Acts specified in Part B
thereof shall extend to, and be in force in that State only as from the date
of commencement of the Union Territories (Laws) Amendment Act, 1956 (68 of
1956), and shall with effect from that date, be amended to the manner and to
the extent specified in the said Part.] [Inserted by s. 2, Act 68 of 1956,
(w.e.f. 1-1-1957).](3)For the purpose of facilities the application in the
said States of any such Act or Ordinance as aforeaid any Court or other
authority may construe the Act or Ordinance with such alterations not
affecting the substance as may be necessary or proper to adapt it to the
matter before the Court or other authority.[Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section and section 4, any reference to the State of Manipur or Tripura
in relation to any period after the 31st October, 1956, shall be construed as
a reference to the Union territory of Manipur or Tripura as the case may be].
[Inserted by s. 2, Act 68 of 1956, (w.e.f. 1-1-1957).]

Manipur.- In its application to the Union territory of Manipur (now a State),
omit proviso to section 3(2) - [Mainipur Act 8 of 1966, S.2 (2.1.1967).]  
---  
  
### 4. Repeals and Savings.

\- Section 7 of the Delhi Laws Act, 1912 (13 of 1912), the Ajmer Merwara
(Extension of Laws) Act, 1947 (52 of 1947), and any law which immediately
[before the coming into force of any Act or Ordinance extended by this Act to
any of the States of Manipur, Tripura and Vindhya Pradesh is in force in that
State and corresponds to the Act or Ordinance as so extended] [Substituted by
s. 3, Act 68 of 1956, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-1-1957).], are hereby
repealed:Provided that the repeal shall not affect -(a)the previous operations
of any such law, or(b)any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in
respect of any offence committed against any such law; or(c)any investigation,
legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment,and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be
instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed:Provided further
that, subject to the preceding proviso, anything done or any action taken,
including any appointment or delegation made, notification, order, instruction
or direction issued, rule, regulation, form, bye-law or scheme framed,
certificate, patent, permit or licence granted or registration effected, under
such law shall be deemed to have been done or taken under section 2 or, as the
case may be, under the corresponding provision of the Act or Ordinance [as
extended] [Substituted by Act 68 of 1956, s. 3, for 'as now extended' (w.e.f.
1-1-1957).] to the State by section 3, and shall continue in force
accordingly, unless and until superseded by anything done or any action taken
under the said section 2 or, as the case may be, under the said Act or
Ordinance.[The Schedule] [Substituted by Act 68 of 1956, s. 4, for the
original Schedule.][See section 3 (2A)]

## Part A – Acts not extended to Manipur by this Act

Year | Number | Short Title  
---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3  
1866 | XXI | The Converts' Marriage Dissolution Act, 1866  
1872 | XV | The Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872  
[2 * [Entry relating to the Married Women's Property Act, 1874 (3 of 1874) omitted by Act 61 of 1959, s. 4 (w.e.f. 1-3-1960).] | * | * * * *]  
1879 | XVIII | The Legal Practitioners Act, 1879  
  
## Part B – Acts extended to Manipur by this Act as from the commencement of
the Union Territories' (Laws) Amendment Act, 1956.

Year | Number | Short Title | Amendment (if any)  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
1873 | X | The Indian Oaths Act, 1873 |  In section 1, for the second paragraph, thefollowing paragraph shall be substituted, namely: -"Itextends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu andKashmir."  
1882 | IV | The Transfer of Property Act, 1882. |   
1887 | VII | The Suits Valuation Act, 1887. |   
1898 | V | The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898. |  (1) In section 1, insub-section (2), the words "and the Union territory ofManipur" shall be omitted, and (2) in section 93A, in sub-section (1), thewords "or in the Union territory of Manipur" shall beomitted.  
1908 | V | The Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. |  In section 1, in sub-section (3) the word "and"at the end of clauses (c) and clause (d) shall be omitted.  
1925 | XXXIX | The Indian Succession Act, 1925. | 

