## International Treaty - Act

## WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (WPPT)

TREATY  
India

# WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (WPPT)

## WORLDINTELLECTUALPROPERTYORGANIZATION 2 of 1996

  * Published in World Intellectual Property Organization on 20 December 1996 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 December 1996.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

***Accession by the Republic of India on September 25, 2018** *PreambleThe
Contracting Parties,Desiring to develop and maintain the protection of the
rights of performers and producers of phonograms in a manner as effective and
uniform as possible,Recognizing the need to introduce new international rules
in order to provide adequate solutions to the questions raised by economic,
social, cultural and technological developments,Recognizing the profound
impact of the development and convergence of information and communication
technologies on the production and use of performances and
phonograms,Recognizing the need to maintain a balance between the rights of
performers and producers of phonograms and the larger public interest,
particularly education, research and access to information,Have agreed as
follows:

## Chapter I General Provisions

### Article 1 Relation to Other Conventions

(1) Nothing in this Treaty shall derogate from existing obligations that
Contracting Parties have to each other under the International Convention for
the Protection of Performers, Producers of Phonograms and Broadcasting
Organizations done in Rome, October 26, 1961 (hereinafter the “Rome
Convention”).(2) Protection granted under this Treaty shall leave intact and
shall in no way affect the protection of copyright in literary and artistic
works. Consequently, no provision of this Treaty may be interpreted as
prejudicing such protection.1(3) This Treaty shall not have any connection
with, nor shall it prejudice any rights and obligations under, any other
treaties.

### Article 2 Definitions

For the purposes of this Treaty:(a) “performers” are actors, singers,
musicians, dancers, and other persons who act, sing, deliver, declaim, play
in, interpret, or otherwise perform literary or artistic works or expressions
of folklore;(b) “phonogram” means the fixation of the sounds of a performance
or of other sounds, or of a representation of sounds, other than in the form
of a fixation incorporated in a cinematographic or other audiovisual work;2(c)
“fixation” means the embodiment of sounds, or of the representations thereof,
from which they can be perceived, reproduced or communicated through a
device;(d) “producer of a phonogram” means the person, or the legal entity,
who or which takes the initiative and has the responsibility for the first
fixation of the sounds of a performance or other sounds, or the
representations of sounds;(e) “publication” of a fixed performance or a
phonogram means the offering of copies of the fixed performance or the
phonogram to the public, with the consent of the rightholder, and provided
that copies are offered to the public in reasonable quantity;3(f)
“broadcasting” means the transmission by wireless means for public reception
of sounds or of images and sounds or of the representations thereof; such
transmission by satellite is also “broadcasting”; transmission of encrypted
signals is “broadcasting” where the means for decrypting are provided to the
public by the broadcasting organization or with its consent;(g) “communication
to the public” of a performance or a phonogram means the transmission to the
public by any medium, otherwise than by broadcasting, of sounds of a
performance or the sounds or the representations of sounds fixed in a
phonogram. For the purposes of Article 15, “communication to the public”
includes making the sounds or representations of sounds fixed in a phonogram
audible to the public.

### Article 3 Beneficiaries of Protection under this Treaty{{^{{> 4}}}}

(1) Contracting Parties shall accord the protection provided under this Treaty
to the performers and producers of phonograms who are nationals of other
Contracting Parties.(2) The nationals of other Contracting Parties shall be
understood to be those performers or producers of phonograms who would meet
the criteria for eligibility for protection provided under the Rome
Convention, were all the Contracting Parties to this Treaty Contracting States
of that Convention. In respect of these criteria of eligibility, Contracting
Parties shall apply the relevant definitions in Article 2 of this Treaty.5(3)
Any Contracting Party availing itself of the possibilities provided in Article
5(3) of the Rome Convention or, for the purposes of Article 5 of the same
Convention, Article 17 thereof shall make a notification as foreseen in those
provisions to the Director General of the World Intellectual Property
Organization (WIPO).

### Article 4 National Treatment

(1) Each Contracting Party shall accord to nationals of other Contracting
Parties, as defined in Article 3(2), the treatment it accords to its own
nationals with regard to the exclusive rights specifically granted in this
Treaty, and to the right to equitable remuneration provided for in Article 15
of this Treaty.(2) The obligation provided for in paragraph (1) does not apply
to the extent that another Contracting Party makes use of the reservations
permitted by Article 15(3) of this Treaty.

## Chapter II Rights of Performers

### Article 5 Moral Rights of Performers

(1) Independently of a performer’s economic rights, and even after the
transfer of those rights, the performer shall, as regards his live aural
performances or performances fixed in phonograms, have the right to claim to
be identified as the performer of his performances, except where omission is
dictated by the manner of the use of the performance, and to object to any
distortion, mutilation or other modification of his performances that would be
prejudicial to his reputation.(2) The rights granted to a performer in
accordance with paragraph (1) shall, after his death, be maintained, at least
until the expiry of the economic rights, and shall be exercisable by the
persons or institutions authorized by the legislation of the Contracting Party
where protection is claimed. However, those Contracting Parties whose
legislation, at the moment of their ratification of or accession to this
Treaty, does not provide for protection after the death of the performer of
all rights set out in the preceding paragraph may provide that some of these
rights will, after his death, cease to be maintained.(3) The means of redress
for safeguarding the rights granted under this Article shall be governed by
the legislation of the Contracting Party where protection is claimed.

### Article 6 Economic Rights of Performers in their Unfixed Performances

Performers shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing, as regards their
performances:(i) the broadcasting and communication to the public of their
unfixed performances except where the performance is already a broadcast
performance; and(ii) the fixation of their unfixed performances.

### Article 7 Right of Reproduction

Performers shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing the direct or
indirect reproduction of their performances fixed in phonograms, in any manner
or form.6

### Article 8 Right of Distribution

(1) Performers shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing the making
available to the public of the original and copies of their performances fixed
in phonograms through sale or other transfer of ownership.(2) Nothing in this
Treaty shall affect the freedom of Contracting Parties to determine the
conditions, if any, under which the exhaustion of the right in paragraph (1)
applies after the first sale or other transfer of ownership of the original or
a copy of the fixed performance with the authorization of the performer.3

### Article 9 Right of Rental

(1) Performers shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing the commercial
rental to the public of the original and copies of their performances fixed in
phonograms as determined in the national law of Contracting Parties, even
after distribution of them by, or pursuant to, authorization by the
performer.(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), a Contracting
Party that, on April 15, 1994, had and continues to have in force a system of
equitable remuneration of performers for the rental of copies of their
performances fixed in phonograms, may maintain that system provided that the
commercial rental of phonograms is not giving rise to the material impairment
of the exclusive right of reproduction of performers.3

### Article 10 Right of Making Available of Fixed Performances

Performers shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing the making available
to the public of their performances fixed in phonograms, by wire or wireless
means, in such a way that members of the public may access them from a place
and at a time individually chosen by them.

## Chapter III Rights of Producers of Phonograms

### Article 11 Right of Reproduction

Producers of phonograms shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing the
direct or indirect reproduction of their phonograms, in any manner or form.6

### Article 12 Right of Distribution

(1) Producers of phonograms shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing the
making available to the public of the original and copies of their phonograms
through sale or other transfer of ownership.(2) Nothing in this Treaty shall
affect the freedom of Contracting Parties to determine the conditions, if any,
under which the exhaustion of the right in paragraph (1) applies after the
first sale or other transfer of ownership of the original or a copy of the
phonogram with the authorization of the producer of the phonogram.3

### Article 13 Right of Rental

(1) Producers of phonograms shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing the
commercial rental to the public of the original and copies of their
phonograms, even after distribution of them, by or pursuant to, authorization
by the producer.(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), a
Contracting Party that, on April 15, 1994, had and continues to have in force
a system of equitable remuneration of producers of phonograms for the rental
of copies of their phonograms, may maintain that system provided that the
commercial rental of phonograms is not giving rise to the material impairment
of the exclusive rights of reproduction of producers of phonograms.3

### Article 14 Right of Making Available of Phonograms

Producers of phonograms shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing the
making available to the public of their phonograms, by wire or wireless means,
in such a way that members of the public may access them from a place and at a
time individually chosen by them.

## Chapter IV Common Provisions

### Article 15 Right to Remuneration for Broadcasting and Communication to the
Public

(1) Performers and producers of phonograms shall enjoy the right to a single
equitable remuneration for the direct or indirect use of phonograms published
for commercial purposes for broadcasting or for any communication to the
public.(2) Contracting Parties may establish in their national legislation
that the single equitable remuneration shall be claimed from the user by the
performer or by the producer of a phonogram or by both. Contracting Parties
may enact national legislation that, in the absence of an agreement between
the performer and the producer of a phonogram, sets the terms according to
which performers and producers of phonograms shall share the single equitable
remuneration.(3) Any Contracting Party may, in a notification deposited with
the Director General of WIPO, declare that it will apply the provisions of
paragraph (1) only in respect of certain uses, or that it will limit their
application in some other way, or that it will not apply these provisions at
all.(4) For the purposes of this Article, phonograms made available to the
public by wire or wireless means in such a way that members of the public may
access them from a place and at a time individually chosen by them shall be
considered as if they had been published for commercial purposes.7, 8

### Article 16 Limitations and Exceptions

(1) Contracting Parties may, in their national legislation, provide for the
same kinds of limitations or exceptions with regard to the protection of
performers and producers of phonograms as they provide for, in their national
legislation, in connection with the protection of copyright in literary and
artistic works.(2) Contracting Parties shall confine any limitations of or
exceptions to rights provided for in this Treaty to certain special cases
which do not conflict with a normal exploitation of the performance or
phonogram and do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the
performer or of the producer of the phonogram.6, 9

### Article 17 Term of Protection

(1) The term of protection to be granted to performers under this Treaty shall
last, at least, until the end of a period of 50 years computed from the end of
the year in which the performance was fixed in a phonogram.(2) The term of
protection to be granted to producers of phonograms under this Treaty shall
last, at least, until the end of a period of 50 years computed from the end of
the year in which the phonogram was published, or failing such publication
within 50 years from fixation of the phonogram, 50 years from the end of the
year in which the fixation was made.

### Article 18 Obligations concerning Technological Measures

Contracting Parties shall provide adequate legal protection and effective
legal remedies against the circumvention of effective technological measures
that are used by performers or producers of phonograms in connection with the
exercise of their rights under this Treaty and that restrict acts, in respect
of their performances or phonograms, which are not authorized by the
performers or the producers of phonograms concerned or permitted by law.

### Article 19 Obligations concerning Rights Management Information

(1) Contracting Parties shall provide adequate and effective legal remedies
against any person knowingly performing any of the following acts knowing, or
with respect to civil remedies having reasonable grounds to know, that it will
induce, enable, facilitate or conceal an infringement of any right covered by
this Treaty:(i) to remove or alter any electronic rights management
information without authority;(ii) to distribute, import for distribution,
broadcast, communicate or make available to the public, without authority,
performances, copies of fixed performances or phonograms knowing that
electronic rights management information has been removed or altered without
authority.(2) As used in this Article, “rights management information” means
information which identifies the performer, the performance of the performer,
the producer of the phonogram, the phonogram, the owner of any right in the
performance or phonogram, or information about the terms and conditions of use
of the performance or phonogram, and any numbers or codes that represent such
information, when any of these items of information is attached to a copy of a
fixed performance or a phonogram or appears in connection with the
communication or making available of a fixed performance or a phonogram to the
public.10

### Article 20 Formalities

The enjoyment and exercise of the rights provided for in this Treaty shall not
be subject to any formality.

### Article 21 Reservations

Subject to the provisions of Article 15(3), no reservations to this Treaty
shall be permitted.

### Article 22 Application in Time

(1) Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Article 18 of the Berne
Convention, mutatis mutandis, to the rights of performers and producers of
phonograms provided for in this Treaty.(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a
Contracting Party may limit the application of Article 5 of this Treaty to
performances which occurred after the entry into force of this Treaty for that
Party.

### Article 23 Provisions on Enforcement of Rights

(1) Contracting Parties undertake to adopt, in accordance with their legal
systems, the measures necessary to ensure the application of this Treaty.(2)
Contracting Parties shall ensure that enforcement procedures are available
under their law so as to permit effective action against any act of
infringement of rights covered by this Treaty, including expeditious remedies
to prevent infringements and remedies which constitute a deterrent to further
infringements.

## Chapter V Administrative and Final Clauses

### Article 24 Assembly

(1)(a) The Contracting Parties shall have an Assembly.(b) Each Contracting
Party shall be represented by one delegate who may be assisted by alternate
delegates, advisors and experts.(c) The expenses of each delegation shall be
borne by the Contracting Party that has appointed the delegation. The Assembly
may ask WIPO to grant financial assistance to facilitate the participation of
delegations of Contracting Parties that are regarded as developing countries
in conformity with the established practice of the General Assembly of the
United Nations or that are countries in transition to a market economy.(2)(a)
The Assembly shall deal with matters concerning the maintenance and
development of this Treaty and the application and operation of this
Treaty.(b) The Assembly shall perform the function allocated to it under
Article 26(2) in respect of the admission of certain intergovernmental
organizations to become party to this Treaty.(c) The Assembly shall decide the
convocation of any diplomatic conference for the revision of this Treaty and
give the necessary instructions to the Director General of WIPO for the
preparation of such diplomatic conference.(3)(a) Each Contracting Party that
is a State shall have one vote and shall vote only in its own name.(b) Any
Contracting Party that is an intergovernmental organization may participate in
the vote, in place of its Member States, with a number of votes equal to the
number of its Member States which are party to this Treaty. No such
intergovernmental organization shall participate in the vote if any one of its
Member States exercises its right to vote and vice versa.(4) The Assembly
shall meet in ordinary session once every two years upon convocation by the
Director General of WIPO.(5) The Assembly shall establish its own rules of
procedure, including the convocation of extraordinary sessions, the
requirements of a quorum and, subject to the provisions of this Treaty, the
required majority for various kinds of decisions.

### Article 25 International Bureau

The International Bureau of WIPO shall perform the administrative tasks
concerning the Treaty.

### Article 26 Eligibility for Becoming Party to the Treaty

(1) Any Member State of WIPO may become party to this Treaty.(2) The Assembly
may decide to admit any intergovernmental organization to become party to this
Treaty which declares that it is competent in respect of, and has its own
legislation binding on all its Member States on, matters covered by this
Treaty and that it has been duly authorized, in accordance with its internal
procedures, to become party to this Treaty.(3) The European Community, having
made the declaration referred to in the preceding paragraph in the Diplomatic
Conference that has adopted this Treaty, may become party to this Treaty.

### Article 27 Rights and Obligations under the Treaty

Subject to any specific provisions to the contrary in this Treaty, each
Contracting Party shall enjoy all of the rights and assume all of the
obligations under this Treaty.

### Article 28 Signature of the Treaty

This Treaty shall be open for signature until December 31, 1997, by any Member
State of WIPO and by the European Community.

### Article 29 Entry into Force of the Treaty

This Treaty shall enter into force three months after 30 instruments of
ratification or accession by States have been deposited with the Director
General of WIPO.

### Article 30 Effective Date of Becoming Party to the Treaty

This Treaty shall bind:(i) the 30 States referred to in Article 29, from the
date on which this Treaty has entered into force;(ii) each other State from
the expiration of three months from the date on which the State has deposited
its instrument with the Director General of WIPO;(iii) the European Community,
from the expiration of three months after the deposit of its instrument of
ratification or accession if such instrument has been deposited after the
entry into force of this Treaty according to Article 29, or, three months
after the entry into force of this Treaty if such instrument has been
deposited before the entry into force of this Treaty;(iv) any other
intergovernmental organization that is admitted to become party to this
Treaty, from the expiration of three months after the deposit of its
instrument of accession.

### Article 31 Denunciation of the Treaty

This Treaty may be denounced by any Contracting Party by notification
addressed to the Director General of WIPO. Any denunciation shall take effect
one year from the date on which the Director General of WIPO received the
notification.

### Article 32 Languages of the Treaty

(1) This Treaty is signed in a single original in English, Arabic, Chinese,
French, Russian and Spanish languages, the versions in all these languages
being equally authentic.(2) An official text in any language other than those
referred to in paragraph (1) shall be established by the Director General of
WIPO on the request of an interested party, after consultation with all the
interested parties. For the purposes of this paragraph, “interested party”
means any Member State of WIPO whose official language, or one of whose
official languages, is involved and the European Community, and any other
intergovernmental organization that may become party to this Treaty, if one of
its official languages is involved.

### Article 33 Depositary

The Director General of WIPO is the depositary of this Treaty.

### 1 Agreed statement concerning Article 1(2): It is understood that Article
1(2) clarifies the relationship between rights in phonograms under this Treaty
and copyright in works embodied in the phonograms. In cases where
authorization is needed from both the author of a work embodied in the
phonogram and a performer or producer owning rights in the phonogram, the need
for the authorization of the author does not cease to exist because the
authorization of the performer or producer is also required, and vice versa.

It is further understood that nothing in Article 1(2) precludes a Contracting
Party from providing exclusive rights to a performer or producer of phonograms
beyond those required to be provided under this Treaty.

### 2 Agreed statement concerning Article 2(b): It is understood that the
definition of phonogram provided in Article 2(b) does not suggest that rights
in the phonogram are in any way affected through their incorporation into a
cinematographic or other audiovisual work.

### 3 Agreed statement concerning Articles 2(e), 8, 9, 12, and 13: As used in
these Articles, the expressions “copies” and “original and copies,” being
subject to the right of distribution and the right of rental under the said
Articles, refer exclusively to fixed copies that can be put into circulation
as tangible objects.

### 4 Agreed statement concerning Article 3: It is understood that the
reference in Articles 5(a) and 16(a)(iv) of the Rome Convention to “national
of another Contracting State” will, when applied to this Treaty, mean, in
regard to an intergovernmental organization that is a Contracting Party to
this Treaty, a national of one of the countries that is a member of that
organization.

### 5 Agreed statement concerning Article 3(2): For the application of Article
3(2), it is understood that fixation means the finalization of the master tape
(“bande-mère”).

### 6 Agreed statement concerning Articles 7, 11 and 16: The reproduction
right, as set out in Articles 7 and 11, and the exceptions permitted
thereunder through Article 16, fully apply in the digital environment, in
particular to the use of performances and phonograms in digital form. It is
understood that the storage of a protected performance or phonogram in digital
form in an electronic medium constitutes a reproduction within the meaning of
these Articles.

### 7 Agreed statement concerning Article 15 It is understood that Article 15
does not represent a complete resolution of the level of rights of
broadcasting and communication to the public that should be enjoyed by
performers and phonogram producers in the digital age. Delegations were unable
to achieve consensus on differing proposals for aspects of exclusivity to be
provided in certain circumstances or for rights to be provided without the
possibility of reservations, and have therefore left the issue to future
resolution.

### 8 Agreed statement concerning Article 15: It is understood that Article 15
does not prevent the granting of the right conferred by this Article to
performers of folklore and producers of phonograms recording folklore where
such phonograms have not been published for commercial gain.

### 9 Agreed statement concerning Article 16: The agreed statement concerning
Article 10 (on Limitations and Exceptions) of the WIPO Copyright Treaty is
applicable mutatis mutandis also to Article 16 (on Limitations and Exceptions)
of the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty.

[The text of the agreed statement concerning Article 10 of the WCT reads as
follows: “It is understood that the provisions of Article 10 permit
Contracting Parties to carry forward and appropriately extend into the digital
environment limitations and exceptions in their national laws which have been
considered acceptable under the Berne Convention. Similarly, these provisions
should be understood to permit Contracting Parties to devise new exceptions
and limitations that are appropriate in the digital network environment.“It is
also understood that Article 10(2) neither reduces nor extends the scope of
applicability of the limitations and exceptions permitted by the Berne
Convention.”]

### 10 Agreed statement concerning Article 19: The agreed statement concerning
Article 12 (on Obligations concerning Rights Management Information) of the
WIPO Copyright Treaty is applicable mutatis mutandis also to Article 19 (on
Obligations concerning Rights Management Information) of the WIPO Performances
and Phonograms Treaty.

[The text of the agreed statement concerning Article 12 of the WCT reads as
follows: “It is understood that the reference to ‘infringement of any right
covered by this Treaty or the Berne Convention’ includes both exclusive rights
and rights of remuneration.“It is further understood that Contracting Parties
will not rely on this Article to devise or implement rights management systems
that would have the effect of imposing formalities which are not permitted
under the Berne Convention or this Treaty, prohibiting the free morvement of
goods or impeding the enjoyment of rights under this Treaty.”]

