## International Treaty - Act

## World Intellectual Property Organization Copyright Treaty

TREATY  
India

# World Intellectual Property Organization Copyright Treaty

## WORLDINTELLECTUALPROPERTYORGANIZATION 1 of 1996

  * Published in World Intellectual Property Organization on 20 December 1996 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 December 1996.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

***Accession by the Republic of India on September 25, 2018** * **Preamble**
_The Contracting Parties,__Desiring_ to develop and maintain the protection of
the rights of authors in their literary and artistic works in a manner as
effective and uniform as possible,_Recognizing_ the need to introduce new
international rules and clarify the interpretation of certain existing rules
in order to provide adequate solutions to the questions raised by new
economic, social, cultural and technological developments,_Recognizing_ the
profound impact of the development and convergence of information and
communication technologies on the creation and use of literary and artistic
works,_Emphasizing_ the outstanding significance of copyright protection as an
incentive for literary and artistic creation,_Recognizing_ the need to
maintain a balance between the rights of authors and the larger public
interest, particularly education, research and access to information, as
reflected in the Berne Convention,_Have agreed_ as follows:

### Article 1 Relation to the Berne Convention

(1) This Treaty is a special agreement within the meaning of Article 20 of the
Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, as regards
Contracting Parties that are countries of the Union established by that
Convention. This Treaty shall not have any connection with treaties other than
the Berne Convention, nor shall it prejudice any rights and obligations under
any other treaties.(2) Nothing in this Treaty shall derogate from existing
obligations that Contracting Parties have to each other under the Berne
Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works.(3) Hereinafter,
“Berne Convention” shall refer to the Paris Act of July**** 24,**** 1971 of
the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works.(4)
Contracting Parties shall comply with Articles 1 to 21 and the Appendix of the
Berne Convention.1

### Article 2 Scope of Copyright Protection

Copyright protection extends to expressions and not to ideas, procedures,
methods of operation or mathematical concepts as such.

### Article 3 Application of Articles 2 to 6 of the Berne Convention

Contracting Parties shall apply _mutatis mutandis_ the provisions of Articles
2 to 6 of the Berne Convention in respect of the protection provided for in
this Treaty.2

### Article 4 Computer Programs

Computer programs are protected as literary works within the meaning of
Article 2 of the Berne Convention. Such protection applies to computer
programs, whatever may be the mode or form of their expression.3

### Article 5 Compilations of Data (Databases)

Compilations of data or other material, in any form, which by reason of the
selection or arrangement of their contents constitute intellectual creations,
are protected as such. This protection does not extend to the data or the
material itself and is without prejudice to any copyright subsisting in the
data or material contained in the compilation.4

### Article 6 Right of Distribution

(1) Authors of literary and artistic works shall enjoy the exclusive right of
authorizing the making available to the public of the original and copies of
their works through sale or other transfer of ownership.(2) Nothing in this
Treaty shall affect the freedom of Contracting Parties to determine the
conditions, if any, under which the exhaustion of the right in paragraph (1)
applies after the first sale or other transfer of ownership of the original or
a copy of the work with the authorization of the author.5

### Article 7 Right of Rental

(1) Authors of(i) computer programs;(ii) cinematographic works; and(iii) works
embodied in phonograms, as determined in the national law of Contracting
Parties,shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing commercial rental to
the public of the originals or copies of their works.(2) Paragraph (1) shall
not apply(i) in the case of computer programs, where the program itself is not
the essential object of the rental; and(ii) in the case of cinematographic
works, unless such commercial rental has led to widespread copying of such
works materially impairing the exclusive right of reproduction.(3)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), a Contracting Party that, on
April**** 15,**** 1994, had and continues to have in force a system of
equitable remuneration of authors for the rental of copies of their works
embodied in phonograms may maintain that system provided that the commercial
rental of works embodied in phonograms is not giving rise to the material
impairment of the exclusive right of reproduction of authors.5 6

### Article 8 Right of Communication to the Public

Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 11(1)(ii), 11bis(1)(i) and
(ii), 11ter(1)(ii), 14(1)(ii) and 14bis(1) of the Berne Convention, authors of
literary and artistic works shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing any
communication to the public of their works, by wire or wireless means,
including the making available to the public of their works in such a way that
members of the public may access these works from a place and at a time
individually chosen by them.7

### Article 9 Duration of the Protection of Photographic Works

In respect of photographic works, the Contracting Parties shall not apply the
provisions of Article 7(4) of the Berne Convention.

### Article 10 Limitations and Exceptions

(1) Contracting Parties may, in their national legislation, provide for
limitations of or exceptions to the rights granted to authors of literary and
artistic works under this Treaty in certain special cases that do not conflict
with a normal exploitation of the work and do not unreasonably prejudice the
legitimate interests of the author.(2) Contracting Parties shall, when
applying the Berne Convention, confine any limitations of or exceptions to
rights provided for therein to certain special cases that do not conflict with
a normal exploitation of the work and do not unreasonably prejudice the
legitimate interests of the author.8

### Article 11 Obligations concerning Technological Measures

Contracting Parties shall provide adequate legal protection and effective
legal remedies against the circumvention of effective technological measures
that are used by authors in connection with the exercise of their rights under
this Treaty or the Berne Convention and that restrict acts, in respect of
their works, which are not authorized by the authors concerned or permitted by
law.

### Article 12 Obligations concerning Rights Management Information

(1) Contracting Parties shall provide adequate and effective legal remedies
against any person knowingly performing any of the following acts knowing, or
with respect to civil remedies having reasonable grounds to know, that it will
induce, enable, facilitate or conceal an infringement of any right covered by
this Treaty or the Berne Convention:(i) to remove or alter any electronic
rights management information without authority;(ii) to distribute, import for
distribution, broadcast or communicate to the public, without authority, works
or copies of works knowing that electronic rights management information has
been removed or altered without authority.(2) As used in this Article, “rights
management information” means information which identifies the work, the
author of the work, the owner of any right in the work, or information about
the terms and conditions of use of the work, and any numbers or codes that
represent such information, when any of these items of information is attached
to a copy of a work or appears in connection with the communication of a work
to the public.9

### Article 13 Application in Time

Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Article 18 of the Berne
Convention to all protection provided for in this Treaty.

### Article 14 Provisions on Enforcement of Rights

(1) Contracting Parties undertake to adopt, in accordance with their legal
systems, the measures necessary to ensure the application of this Treaty.(2)
Contracting Parties shall ensure that enforcement procedures are available
under their law so as to permit effective action against any act of
infringement of rights covered by this Treaty, including expeditious remedies
to prevent infringements and remedies which constitute a deterrent to further
infringements.

### Article 15 Assembly

(1)(a) The Contracting Parties shall have an Assembly.(b) Each Contracting
Party shall be represented by one delegate who may be assisted by alternate
delegates, advisors and experts.(c) The expenses of each delegation shall be
borne by the Contracting Party that has appointed the delegation. The Assembly
may ask the World Intellectual Property Organization (hereinafter referred to
as “WIPO”) to grant financial assistance to facilitate the participation of
delegations of Contracting Parties that are regarded as developing countries
in conformity with the established practice of the General Assembly of the
United Nations or that are countries in transition to a market economy.(2)(a)
The Assembly shall deal with matters concerning the maintenance and
development of this Treaty and the application and operation of this
Treaty.(b) The Assembly shall perform the function allocated to it under
Article 17(2) in respect of the admission of certain intergovernmental
organizations to become party to this Treaty.(c) The Assembly shall decide the
convocation of any diplomatic conference for the revision of this Treaty and
give the necessary instructions to the Director General of WIPO for the
preparation of such diplomatic conference.(3)(a) Each Contracting Party that
is a State shall have one vote and shall vote only in its own name.(b) Any
Contracting Party that is an intergovernmental organization may participate in
the vote, in place of its Member States, with a number of votes equal to the
number of its Member States which are party to this Treaty. No such
intergovernmental organization shall participate in the vote if any one of its
Member States exercises its right to vote and _vice versa_.(4) The Assembly
shall meet in ordinary session once every two years upon convocation by the
Director General of WIPO.(5) The Assembly shall establish its own rules of
procedure, including the convocation of extraordinary sessions, the
requirements of a quorum and, subject to the provisions of this Treaty, the
required majority for various kinds of decisions.

### Article 16 International Bureau

The International Bureau of WIPO shall perform the administrative tasks
concerning the Treaty.

### Article 17 Eligibility for Becoming Party to the Treaty

(1) Any Member State of WIPO may become party to this Treaty.(2) The Assembly
may decide to admit any intergovernmental organization to become party to this
Treaty which declares that it is competent in respect of, and has its own
legislation binding on all its Member States on, matters covered by this
Treaty and that it has been duly authorized, in accordance with its internal
procedures, to become party to this Treaty.(3) The European Community, having
made the declaration referred to in the preceding paragraph in the Diplomatic
Conference that has adopted this Treaty, may become party to this Treaty.

### Article 18 Rights and Obligations under the Treaty

Subject to any specific provisions to the contrary in this Treaty, each
Contracting Party shall enjoy all of the rights and assume all of the
obligations under this Treaty.

### Article 19 Signature of the Treaty

This Treaty shall be open for signature until December**** 31,**** 1997, by
any Member State of WIPO and by the European Community.

### Article 20 Entry into Force of the Treaty

This Treaty shall enter into force three months after**** 30 instruments of
ratification or accession by States have been deposited with the Director
General of WIPO.

### Article 21 Effective Date of Becoming Party to the Treaty

This Treaty shall bind:(i) the 30 States referred to in Article 20, from the
date on which this Treaty has entered into force;(ii) each other State from
the expiration of three months from the date on which the State has deposited
its instrument with the Director General of WIPO;(iii) the European Community,
from the expiration of three months after the deposit of its instrument of
ratification or accession if such instrument has been deposited after the
entry into force of this Treaty according to Article 20, or, three months
after the entry into force of this Treaty if such instrument has been
deposited before the entry into force of this Treaty;(iv) any other
intergovernmental organization that is admitted to become party to this
Treaty, from the expiration of three months after the deposit of its
instrument of accession.

### Article 22 No Reservations to the Treaty

No reservation to this Treaty shall be admitted.

### Article 23 Denunciation of the Treaty**

This Treaty may be denounced by any Contracting Party by notification
addressed to the Director General of WIPO. Any denunciation shall take effect
one year from the date on which the Director General of WIPO received the
notification.

### Article 24 Languages of the Treaty

(1) This Treaty is signed in a single original in English, Arabic, Chinese,
French, Russian and Spanish languages, the versions in all these languages
being equally authentic.(2) An official text in any language other than those
referred to in paragraph (1) shall be established by the Director General of
WIPO on the request of an interested party, after consultation with all the
interested parties. For the purposes of this paragraph, “interested party”
means any Member State of WIPO whose official language, or one of whose
official languages, is involved and the European Community, and any other
intergovernmental organization that may become party to this Treaty, if one of
its official languages is involved.

### Article 25 Depositary

The Director General of WIPO is the depositary of this Treaty.

### 1 Agreed statements concerning Article 1(4): The reproduction right, as
set out in Article 9 of the Berne Convention, and the exceptions permitted
thereunder, fully apply in the digital environment, in particular to the use
of works in digital form. It is understood that the storage of a protected
work in digital form in an electronic medium constitutes a reproduction within
the meaning of Article 9 of the Berne Convention.

### 2 Agreed statements concerning Article 3 :** It is understood that in
applying Article 3 of this Treaty, the expression “country of the Union” in
Articles 2 to 6 of the Berne Convention will be read as if it were a reference
to a Contracting Party to this Treaty, in the application of those Berne
Articles in respect of protection provided for in this Treaty. It is also
understood that the expression “country outside the Union” in those Articles
in the Berne Convention will, in the same circumstances, be read as if it were
a reference to a country that is not a Contracting Party to this Treaty, and
that “this Convention” in Articles 2(8) , 2bis(2) , 3 , 4 and 5 of the Berne
Convention will be read as if it were a reference to the Berne Convention and
this Treaty. Finally, it is understood that a reference in Articles 3 to 6 of
the Berne Convention to a “national of one of the countries of the Union”
will, when these Articles are applied to this Treaty, mean, in regard to an
intergovernmental organization that is a Contracting Party to this Treaty, a
national of one of the countries that is member of that organization.

### 3 Agreed statements concerning Article 4:The scope of protection for
computer programs under Article 4 of this Treaty, read with Article 2, is
consistent with Article 2 of the Berne Convention and on a par with the
relevant provisions of the TRIPS Agreement.

### 4 Agreed statements concerning Article 5: The scope of protection for
compilations of data (databases) under Article 5 of this Treaty, read with
Article 2, is consistent with Article 2 of the Berne Convention and on a par
with the relevant provisions of the TRIPS Agreement.

### 5 Agreed statements concerning Articles 6 and 7: As used in these
Articles, the expressions “copies” and “original and copies,” being subject to
the right of distribution and the right of rental under the said Articles,
refer exclusively to fixed copies that can be put into circulation as tangible
objects.

### 6 Agreed statements concerning Article 7: It is understood that the
obligation under Article 7(1) does not require a Contracting Party to provide
an exclusive right of commercial rental to authors who, under that Contracting
Party’s law, are not granted rights in respect of phonograms. It is understood
that this obligation is consistent with Article 14(4) of the TRIPS Agreement.

### 7 Agreed statements concerning Article 8 : It is understood that the mere
provision of physical facilities for enabling or making a communication does
not in itself amount to communication within the meaning of this Treaty or the
Berne Convention. It is further understood that nothing in Article 8 precludes
a Contracting Party from applying Article 11bis(2) .

### 8 Agreed statement concerning Article 10: It is understood that the
provisions of Article 10 permit Contracting Parties to carry forward and
appropriately extend into the digital environment limitations and exceptions
in their national laws which have been considered acceptable under the Berne
Convention. Similarly, these provisions should be understood to permit
Contracting Parties to devise new exceptions and limitations that are
appropriate in the digital network environment.

It is also understood that Article 10(2) neither reduces nor extends the scope
of applicability of the limitations and exceptions permitted by the Berne
Convention.

### 9 Agreed statements concerning Article 12: It is understood that the
reference to “infringement of any right covered by this Treaty or the Berne
Convention” includes both exclusive rights and rights of remuneration.

It is further understood that Contracting Parties will not rely on this
Article to devise or implement rights management systems that would have the
effect of imposing formalities which are not permitted under the Berne
Convention or this Treaty, prohibiting the free movement of goods or impeding
the enjoyment of rights under this Treaty.

